null: 

spk_0: enjoy basketball, soccer and all your favorite sports like never before at Bet MGM sign up using bonus code celebrate and your first wager is risk free, up to $1000 plus when you register with Bet MGM you'll get instant access to a variety of parlay selection features, live betting options, player props and daily boosted odds specials, download the Bet MGM app today or go to Bet MGM dot com and enter bonus codes celebrate and place your first wager. Risk free up to $1000. Now you're winning with the king of sports books, visit bet MGM dot com for terms and conditions 21 years of age or older to wager michigan only new customer offer all promotions are subject to qualification and eligibility requirements, rewards issued as non withdraw, both free bets or site credit free bets expires seven days from issuance gambling problem call 1 802 7 oh +7117 for confidential help excludes michigan disassociated persons.

spk_1: Honestly, thank God,

spk_2: welcome to half and half out podcast. The only L G B T Q plus gymnastics podcast. I'm blake

spk_3: and I'm kina today we're bringing you an interview with Alyssa Perez Louganis who we spoke to earlier this week, She's a rising junior at Georgia. Um and you should look out for her on floor this coming season, but we talk about her experiences as a gay gymnast in Georgia, her including her friendship with sad Shane hair and we'll talk about being gay and hispanic. So we really hope you enjoyed this

spk_2: interview. Alright, Alyssa, thank you so much for joining us. How have you been?

spk_1: I have done pretty good. I just recently got back on campus. So acclimating to covid and like always having to wear a mask and like everything, well the mass part has been normal but we have to get our temperature taken before we go in and like social distance all the time. So I don't know. It's been pretty good.

spk_3: Are you in the gym

spk_1: actually? First practice today Under our Oh, I mean only did basics but yeah, we just got back into the gym so I'm pretty

spk_2: excited. How is the first day? How does it feel

spk_1: right now? I feel good tomorrow. That after effects. So right now I feel pretty good about where I'm at. Yeah,

spk_2: awesome. Um So before we get into talking about like all of the deep identity stuff. So first practice was today. So um, last year you were leading off on floor. Um What are some of your goals for this year? What are, what are you looking forward to this season?

spk_1: Um I think this, this season, I don't, I want to do what I did last year, but better. So I want to start, you know, um getting the crowd hyped up and everything. I want. I want to be the floor starter. Um and I want to at least be an alternate for another event. Um I think that's pretty realistic. Try to try to not go far and beyond, but what

spk_3: event would you want that to be if you could, like if you could pick

spk_1: um, probably being, yeah, I was working in being last year, but kind of work started too late. Okay, yeah,

spk_2: that's awesome. That is awesome. So, um, we started this podcast um 6, 7 months ago and at the time we didn't know of um, any openly LGBTQ plus in any capacity um, NCAA like women's gymnasts. Um, and we found one and then all of a sudden people started sending us names of other people. Yeah. And we're like, we've been Googling for three months, what is happening

spk_3: also, we've existed for three months and brought this up and

spk_1: no one said

spk_2: one of the first people that, that, that was the people said it was you and so we've been looking forward to talking to you for for a while. So this is, this is really exciting for us. People are really, people are really excited.

spk_1: Cool. I honestly had no idea if people knew I was gay. I did not hide it. No, no, no,

spk_2: I think that's exactly what it was like, I think people didn't know except for a hand, you know, some Georgia fans

spk_1: maybe. And then

spk_3: all the Georgia fans were like, hey, like over here and we're like, oh

spk_2: great. Um, from what I could tell and this has been similar to a lot of other people, you never really like made any kind of declaration you just like started posting pictures with your girlfriend.

spk_1: I didn't feel the need to just be like, hey everybody like I'm gay. It was just to me it's always been normal. So to declare it like that was just like, well this is my life. Like it doesn't matter who I date or what I'm into. I'm still me. Always been me. So I was kind of just like one day I was like, you know what babe, I'm posting it and I just posted and I was like, there we go. I feel accomplished.

spk_3: Probably feels a lot better too. Just like in general it's like oh yeah, I'm

spk_2: glad that felt like an accomplishment because it absolutely was.

spk_1: Yeah, it's weird because so my girlfriend's a basketball player so in the stigma is women basketball players, like they're pretty open about it whereas they're not. So she was one of the people that was like babe, I just don't understand why you're freaking out about it. I just don't get it.

spk_2: Yeah that was that's exactly what we heard from. Our Douglas is also dating a basketball player. Um Nia was just like why is the big deal?

spk_1: Yeah. Yeah, that's exactly what she was just like just posted. Stop thinking just post it and I was like, you know, kind of like sent it and like through my phone across the room and then you know after she was like, oh it's not that bad was it? And I was like, okay. But,

spk_3: but different sport cultures to like,

spk_1: it's

spk_3: like, there are plenty of like college women's, women's college sports where it's like, yeah, like there are plenty of gay women, but then you have other sports, like gymnastics where it's like, we literally didn't know of a single one until how many months ago. Yeah.

spk_1: It's very on the traditional side, I would say. Yeah.

spk_2: Yeah. So is that like for you just kind of like being in the super traditional space your whole life?

spk_1: Oh, um, it's my gymnastics life. I was in a very traditional atmosphere. I say two different lives. Like my gymnastics me where I would just like was honestly scared to come out and then the person I would take to go to school, like at school, I was openly gay, like everybody knew. Like it was just cool. And then when I would go to gym it would be like, don't tell anybody back in high school. So, um, I think part of it was hard for me at first and then I started accepting myself more and knowing myself worth more. And I just kind of got onto like the rhythm of, well I don't want to be around people who aren't going to accept me or programs who aren't going to accept me. So like this is who I am, y'all like take it or leave it. Like your opinion doesn't really matter to me. And I think that was like the biggest thing when I came to Georgia, I had told all my coaches and all my staff and teammates all at the same time. I mean I did, some of them figured it out prior, Some of them already knew, but like it was important for my coaches and other people to know that like, this is who I am now. They've been pretty supportive

spk_2: ever since. That's awesome. Yeah, I saw that you wrote that, that you character everybody at once. So like, what was that? Like

spk_1: I was um, well I had done it twice the first time was just with like our team and like, oh, I was like shaking but like in the back of my mind, I was like, if they don't accept you, like we can't be here. Like that was like important to me. Um, but they did. And I was like, oh my gosh, that was so easy. Just like, that was so easy. And then, um, I did it again at the end of the year when Suzanne, I think announced that she was, um, not being the volunteer head coach and I had a gay flag, you know, rainbow flag and I was like, this is who I am. And I was absolutely terrified. My mom was crying. She made me christ and I looked like, but like it was, it was it,

spk_2: Oh cute. That's awesome. Yeah, we love a little, we love a little pride flag over here. We're big

spk_3: fans of pride

spk_1: flags wearing

spk_2: a rainbow

spk_1: sweater, right?

spk_3: So when we talk

spk_1: to sanction

spk_3: hair, she mentioned that you two came out to each other at a pretty young age and can you tell us more about that? And how did knowing that Sav was gay impact your experience as a young person to,

spk_1: I think it was a little bit of a release that it wasn't just me. And as I got older, there was just always that comfort of knowing that like, I'm not the only one because you guys said at the beginning, you don't hear it a lot. So just to know that like, yes, I'm not the only one, like there's somebody out there that I could confide in and like I could go to if I really needed to to like help me out. It just provided a sense of comfort to know that she was gay.

spk_3: Especially because you said that you weren't out in the gym. Yeah. So it would be really comforting to have somebody at least in that space where you feel less comfortable. It's like you have that one person,

spk_1: it was my freshman year was when I officially came out um in my life that I was gay and I told like one or two close friends at the gym and then as the, as my high school years went on, I think by my junior year, I was freely talking about it. But even then, like, I didn't come out to my coaches and I didn't come out to like the people who like, we're also close to me, my teammates know. But

spk_2: yeah, that just like stresses me out hearing about it. Like, it's like, like familiar, but also like, it just like, it it brings back just like in my chest anxiety of like when, when you're in that place of like, a lot of people know, but then a certain few really important people don't and it's just absolutely terrifying and makes it so hard to do Normal stuff, let alone like level 10 gymnastics.

spk_1: Like it was stressful and ways it was stressful, you know, sometimes we would go off on tangents, some people and like dealing with boys and like their boy problems and I'd be sitting there like, I don't know how it

spk_3: is, it's hard to compartmentalize your out Nous, it's incredibly difficult and being like, okay, I'm not out in this space, I'm kind of out in this space and I'm very out in this space is like such a weird comparison. It's like linguistic code switching. It's like, your brain is like code switching your entire like identity. It's very frustrating

spk_1: I got I got and this is why I really was excited to do this podcast as well. I got so tired of being this one person here and having to be this one person here and like, once, honestly I came to college, I was like, you know what, I'm this person everywhere I go. You know? So I was just, this is like an opportunity for me to actually lay it out on the table. Yeah,

spk_3: I'm so

spk_1: glad that we get to give that

spk_2: to you. Yeah, that is exactly what we wanted to start the podcast was when you googled LGBT and gymnastics or gay and gymnastics. There was a couple articles about a couple of men. Yeah. And then the one episode of Jim Castaic where there was like a panel uh and one person had to be anonymous and it was like, like, it was very of its time. Like it was, it did not, it did not age well and everybody like half of people that like gymnastics or gay, like it doesn't make sense. You know, like it doesn't make any, it doesn't make sense that even if say by some weird like, omnipotent act there happened to have not been gay people in this sport somehow statistically for however long there should still be like someone having a conversation about that. Like, why are we being excluded that or something right? Like,

spk_1: like, like

spk_3: idea like I always go back to the figure skating comparison like when people are like, oh my gosh, it's a gay figure skater. I'm like, there's a huge gay following of figure skating, you're telling me there's no, I mean there are obviously gay figure

spk_1: skaters, but it's like you're

spk_3: telling me there's none or you're telling me that this is an issue, like

spk_2: and then for men at least halving the stereotype of like, of course they are. But then like not even really having that many examples of like out mandible from if the stereotype is like all men and gymnastics are gay,

spk_1: right? That's completely wrong. Yeah, I think it's pretty funny. This stereotypical oh, men are men, gymnasts are gay, which I when I was growing up, I practiced with male gymnasts and they weren't gay and then like, people look at female gymnasts and they're like, they expect, you know, the prissy, like stereotypical whatever and like they don't even try to think of it any different way does that make?

spk_2: Yeah, totally. Absolutely. I think it absolutely has to do with the like amount of like feminization and like sexism and all of the things that culturally have existed in gymnastics for forever, where even with like us interviewing multiple queer gymnasts, like even now there's not like a ton of folks who are freely expressing like a not hyper feminine appearance at least in like meat time. Yeah. Um how has that been for you in terms of like the gender feelings of it

spk_1: all, I don't wear makeup, I don't love to glam up, I'll do it every once in a while and like go out with, you know, the girls and you know birthday and whoa you're located on. But like um it's not my style choice. I like to have that kind of in between masculine feminine type look. Um Just my what I prefer. And before I came to Georgia had a coach who told me you've got to get used to the lipstick, you gotta get used to looking this way and you gotta get used to doing this and you gotta and not that I don't like it, but as I think especially my freshman year, I was very stressed out about that and looking the part. Um now like I definitely feel more comfortable to wear whatever I want and there they're cool with it. But I think I stressed myself out more than then what you know should have been happening.

spk_2: Yeah. Well I just get so internalized.

spk_1: It does it

spk_2: does it. So it's not like self police. That super hard.

spk_1: Yeah.

spk_3: So before we move on to our next topic it should be noted that we got distracted talking about dogs. But during that time it was mentioned that

spk_2: Alyssa's

spk_3: girlfriend goes to school in boston.

spk_2: So we were just talking about dogs but also talking about your girlfriend. Um And so I didn't realize that you all were long distance because you like instagram is just pictures of the two of you.

spk_1: Yeah. So that's like my little trick, right? So we actually met in high school but we weren't together in high school. I actually kind of blew her off maybe seven or eight times. Like that's not a joke.

spk_2: No that's like that's lesbian stuff like that's gay with him and stuff. That's totally a thing.

spk_1: I was totally you know trying to see me or whatever. Um So her name is Corey so I don't have to keep calling her my girlfriend but her name is Corey. We we met in high school and um I have a twin so she was my twins best friend. It gets so much better so storytelling of this it just gets better and better. So everyone you know and like to get even you know messier um you know lesbian stuff, it was my ex's ex. Oh my

spk_3: gosh

spk_1: yes when I first met Corey I had you know my my girlfriend at the time had told me oh like don't talk to her or whatever. So like I was like oh yeah like I don't like her or whatever blah blah blah. But then like once I start you know that's like no cory like I was like oh my gosh this girl is like pretty great, pretty good. But um so I cut her off because like my own personal reasons I had stuff going on and like I just knew that it wasn't gonna work out and so my freshman year of college we were both long you know away she was at school, I was at school and I just I don't know what came over me, I hadn't talked to her in like months. I texted her and I was like, I don't know if this is your number, how are you doing? And um it wasn't it wasn't oh like I'm texting her because I like you. It was just like, I genuinely wonder how you're doing because like me and you vibe for a minute. So then right, so then she, she texted back when I was like, she texted back, I didn't think she was going to because of how dirty I did her and then she was like busy or whatever and she was like, how about I call you? So we started talking all right, talking on the phone on facetime and like, oh my gosh, we talked for hours and it was just like so natural and so good and like you could just tell that there was that like connection and then she sheer me, one of us was really bold and was like, you know, we would have been really good together in high school and you know, the other one was like why not now? So me being me, I was like, you know, we could try it, but I was like you just came out of a bad relationship. I came out of not so great relationship. Um So I'm not in the mood to get my heart broken, I'm not in the mood to get my time wasted and this is long distance so I need to know if this is actually going to work and like a few months went by where we talked and stuff and I think one of the biggest tests was we came home for thanksgiving, saw each other and then we had to leave again and it worked, you know, so come near christmas time we both came back home and it was just like yeah this is this is right, this is awesome.

spk_2: And that's that's a really that's a really great way to have that progress in terms of just like you you know over time and you know consistently over time and like it just gets like better and

spk_3: please hire me to write the novelization of your romance?

spk_2: Well I was gonna say like that that I was like that has to already be an episode of something like you know like

spk_1: that part of my life is like a movie somewhere or like it

spk_3: has to be all right. It

spk_2: between the three of us, there's like I think it's it's a tv show I think is what it is with like the day the dating t. So you had mentioned that you came out to your team and you were nervous about it but everybody was super supportive. What did like they were really supportive and great look like like how did they show that to you?

spk_1: Um Nothing changed, nothing really changed and I think I appreciated that a lot that it was kind of just like, oh yeah, okay. And then they kept moving on. But like, they would ask me about my relationship, they would ask me questions and stuff like that and I'm pretty open, like I will literally answer anything if you just asked, you know, and they would want to talk to me about it and that was, that was what made it special to me.

spk_3: It just makes me happy.

spk_2: Yeah, I know.

spk_3: I say that every time somebody says my team

spk_1: supportive and I'm just like, well, yeah, I think, I

spk_2: think because we hadn't heard anybody's, we kind of went into this thinking that a lot of people were going to have like really traumatic, like I came out and it was horrible things like that hasn't been the case. Like everyone's been like, oh yeah, it was fine and I think it's like super important for people to hear that. It was like, yeah, it was not a huge, yeah,

spk_1: I wanted a lot bigger in our heads than what it really is, honestly. But no, no doubt I know there are people out there who um have a harder time coming out and people around them aren't accepting of them. But I think my generation especially were very

spk_3: opened. So we're going to move into a story about the recruitment process for Alyssa, which then we'll talk about when she was at Georgia and then eventually we'll move into discussing what it's like to be queer in the south and the midwest

spk_1: when I was being recruited for that college, I went and all the girls looked the same, everybody looked the same. And at that time I had really, I had banging short hair, like I was rocking, rocking hair and um I got told I had to grow it out and I couldn't have the sides of my head shaved and I just had to like conforming to this person. And um then I went back home obviously and I didn't get recruited for a spot on the team and my coach asked why because I was, I was, my coach knew I, I shouldn't, there was no reason for me not to make it. And they said I didn't have the right look. They said sorry,

spk_3: this are so

spk_1: angry. No, it's fine, you know? But it's like, it's ridiculous. It is ridiculous. It's not fine. But like I think that specific moment, I was like, wow, I think that's when I was really taken back and I think my coach was also like, I can't believe like I wasn't out to my coach, but my coach, I couldn't even believe that somebody actually said that

spk_3: that is, oh my God, I'm like

spk_1: when I came to Georgia because I never visited, they just recruited me and obviously George is an amazing school athletic wise and athletic wise. So I was like, why not? Like why would I not go, Me and Courtney were like, she was showing me around and stuff like that and I asked her, I was like, is my head being shaved gonna be a problem? She was like, she kind of looked at me like, what are you talking about? Like are you crazy? Like I can keep my imagine,

spk_3: like imagine being a coach and being like, wait what?

spk_2: Oh my gosh, that's, I'm glad that's, I'm glad that you asked directly and got that answer.

spk_1: Yeah.

spk_2: Yeah. Yeah. So I, we were both in like midwest which has like its own type of homophobia and transphobia. Um but Georgia is a little different and it's not necessarily worse. It just is different. Yeah. And if you hadn't been from Georgia, I would have asked like, were you nervous to go to Georgia from somewhere else? But um what was that like for you? It's kind of like growing up in as a gay person in

spk_1: Georgia South. Yeah. What was it like in the midwest? Um

spk_0: it's

spk_3: really tense. Um

spk_2: there's a lot of, there's a lot of like tiny pockets. So there's like, each state will have like one or two like gay people, cities basically. Um and then everywhere else it's, it's still a lot of places very like,

spk_3: it's like a weird dance of like, is it okay for me to be out in this space or not?

spk_2: And it's, it's weird because everybody expects it to be better. So it's kind of like everything's like really covert. Like passive aggressive. Like nothing like overt whatever

spk_1: The,

spk_3: the like that weird midwestern politeness also like falls generally into homophobia to um, which is weird. I mean, you definitely get the people who are just like outright like gay people are terrible. I get a more vibe of like people just, I don't want to talk about it either. But it's like, oh, we're just pretending that nothing is gay. And I mean that's some of the vibes I get from the midwest. Yeah. There are pockets where it's very like LGBT friendly. But um,

spk_2: but those pockets are almost always white. Like very, very white.

spk_1: Very white. Mm hmm. Yeah. So to answer your question when you're growing up, it's not really talked about. So it's that male and a female Always together. Always together. Always together. Always together. Like even up until recently on kids tv shows. Mm hmm. Men and women Always together. Always together. Always together. I still had a a different type of perspective in my life of no two women can be together. Other people can be together. Like love. You know, always love. But um, in schools, it was it was weird until high school and it became like a trend to be gay. Um, which was very frustrating to actually be gay then you don't know who is gay or who wants to be gay or is pretending to be gay or just doesn't know if they are gay and if you don't know like cool like figure it out, but like all the mind games and stuff like that where people think it's cool and then you know it was just in a way it was either fantasized as being gay and like you really weren't or it was you're gay and you're completely open and with the world or it was your gay in a closet in like shoved like weight in the back. So

spk_2: I couldn't find a ton of info about like background for you like race, ethnicity wise, but like last name. Um Yeah, so like how has it been for you in terms of navigating like being a queer person and like race and ethnicity and also like this isn't really your, you don't really have intersections that we've seen from other people we've interviewed.

spk_1: Okay, so my last name, I'm Cuban, I'm half Cuban. I haven't really had any trouble with it to be honest. I have found that people my age who are hispanic are very accepting, you know? But I know that if you go a little bit older a little bit more on the traditional side, there are strict heavy catholic Hispanics, you know? Um But I definitely think at least in my household my grandmother is very catholic and my is very catholic and but she is like the traditional hispanic uh voila where she just wants you to be happy and just always love and like have a good time. So like she I actually didn't tell her I was gay, she found out I was gay somehow and like was crying because she didn't think I accepted myself and what what if you could just accept myself and like I had to do like I had to tell her, I was like no it's not like I accept myself, I'm okay, I promise. So sweet, literally the most wholesome thing I've ever seen in my life.

spk_3: My grandma was crying because she didn't think I accepted, I was gay.

spk_1: Yeah, that's so precious. Like it's awesome. My mom, I came out to my mom and she was like I know and I was like what do you mean? You know it's just like Alyssa you bring girls home and you don't talk about boys, what do you think? And I was like okay. And I was like okay great, like we're watching tv and I started off with like this huge, inspiring introduction that I just want to be accepted and loved for who I am and she was just like yeah, okay, great kid. Like I know can we get back to our tv show oh my gosh, I killed my dad and my dad was just like okay, like I get it as long as you're happy, like honestly I couldn't have asked at least in my family for a better like coming out experience, it was positive.

spk_2: That's awesome. That's super awesome. Yeah, I really think it's like the difference of a decade is where so much of it comes in because I think like, you know, if you don't have, like for us, it wasn't that we were aware of queerness necessary, like that's exactly what we were, but we were just like hiding it. Like we didn't have, I didn't have the language to put any words to like I was that feeling of just like something that you had mentioned, like something is I don't know this, but I'm getting like something feels different or weird. That was until I was like 17. Um and like started navigating this stuff when I was like your age, like age, you are now basically absolutely younger, but like a freshman and sophomore in college, like and so to to have folks like you and sav who have been able to like be super confident this whole time, It's really cool. So I think it's like, it's such a different experience and like how that impacts you in the long term, just like not having this like the same level of this, like impounding shame. Um and how different it makes the experience from like not even being aware of our own identities to like a decade later, People are like, well I came out like the first day of like they're coming out freshman year of high school and I was out as soon as I got to college.

spk_3: Also very interesting because not only like are the people coming out a decade, you know younger, it's also the people you're coming out to generally are a decade younger. So it's like, it's not just like the people coming out, it's the people who are like we're coming out to and I think that also was a big thing.

spk_1: Hold hands and get out of the closet together. Like

spk_2: Yeah, well that's like what the podcast is right, is like, let's, you know, we, a couple episodes ago the balancing situation had said like while we know of like a bunch of people now, but specifically it's like L. A. And sav. And so we clarified were like here's the list of like six people we have at the moment who are okay with us saying this on on air. Um And it's grown since then by a couple but like, like our

spk_3: spreadsheet includes women now.

spk_2: Yeah

spk_3: because there is a spreadsheet

spk_2: and also like non binary people and like also like ace folks and awesome. Yeah. And so all of the letters

spk_3: are being represented.

spk_2: Yeah. Actually, yeah, that's the kind of, that's the other goal I have is like how do we get like no call or? Yeah because there's a there's a lot of y'all and it's really, really cool. So we're super excited to look out for you this year at Georgia, you're gonna be a junior. We're super excited and now we have another team to stand, where can people find you on social media if they want to see all those super adorable pictures of you and Corey?

spk_1: Um I'm mainly only on instagram. Um it's Alyssa F as in fish P as in pickle L as in wayne. Yeah.

spk_2: You know fish Pickle lane?

spk_1: I've actually never said it like that before actually dying, but yeah, so that's where you can find me, put it in the show notes. All

spk_2: of that is

spk_1: staying. Oh

spk_2: no, that's perfect. That's perfect. Thank you so much for listening to our interview with Alyssa. Um if you haven't gotten a chance already, please go back and listen to our interview with Mark Zona fraser talking about Black Lives Matter movement. Uh we think it's really important. I just want to make sure that everybody is hearing from mars in this really important time. We also wanted you to know that you can support us on Patreon. We don't make any profit personally. We're just trying to cover our costs as a podcast. Um so you can search for half and half out podcast on Patreon. You can also follow us on twitter at H. I. H. O podcast and instagram H I. H. O podcast, Do you have any questions feedback or anything you can do to help us out. Some folks have asked how they can donate larger sums of money, which is incredibly incredibly generous. Um I want to thank our friend Megan Cleary for her, her recent generosity. We've asked for folks to help us identify L. G. B. T. Q. Plus gymnasts that we haven't already talked to. Um see if anything that you'd like to share with us, feel free to email us to reach out to us on social media and thank you so much. $50 thank you

spk_0: enjoy basketball, soccer and all your favorite sports. Like never before at Bet MGM sign up using bonus code celebrate and your first wager is risk free up to $1000 plus when you register with Bet MGM you'll get instant access to a variety of parley selection features, live betting options, player props and daily boosted odds specials, download the Bet MGM app today or go to Bet MGM dot com and enter bonus codes celebrate and place your first wager risk free up to $1000 now you're winning with the king of sports books, visit bet MGM dot com for terms and conditions 21 years of age or older to wager. Michigan only new customer offer all promotions are subject to qualification and eligibility requirements, rewards issued as non withdraw both free bets or site credit free bets expire seven days from issuance gambling problem. Call 1 802 7 oh 7117. For confidential help excludes michigan disassociated persons

