Episode 14: "Be Yourself" - Interview with Kalyany Steele

Kino: Once you kind of get more comfortable with yourself and have complete acceptance, you're gonna find the people in your life who like truly matter and who accept you for who you are.

Blake: Welcome to another episode of Half In Half Out Podcast the only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast in the world, I am Blake

Kino: and I'm Kino and today we are bringing you an interview with UCLA's own Kalyany Steel, we recorded this almost a month ago by the time this episode is out and we had a really nice time talking to Kaly,

Blake: She's awesome

Kino: She's great, we talk about potential upgrades, we talk about what it was like to come out to her team and what it's like being on a team with other queer staff members and how that's helpful, it was just, it was a really nice chat.

Blake: Yeah, she's super lovely and I know everybody has been really looking forward to this interview for a long time so we hope that you enjoyed this interview with the lovely, wonderful Kalyany Steele.

Blake: Welcome Kaly to the podcast, it's so good to have you here, how are you doing?

Kalyany: I'm good, thank you, thank you so much for having me

Kino: we're so excited to have you, we're so excited. This has been like the highlight of my week to be honest.

Kalyany: Oh!

Kino: It is, I'm not gonna lie, I've been looking forward to it,

Kalyany: I've been looking forward to it too,

Kino: I'm glad

Blake: I think a lot of people on twitter were really excited and instagram are really excited about it too when we first announced it, there was like this huge rush of people who didn't even have questions, they were just like, we're so excited, just like tell her that she was awesome. so people just have really grown to adore you after just a year,

Kino: Yeah, twitter loves you. 100%. Yeah, well I think,

Blake: I think, yeah, I think one of the many, many reasons that people are just like huge stans on twitter on twitter is not only do you have this gorgeous gymnastics, like super sweet, ridiculously adorable but then you're like almost, you're 50% of the representation we have of bisexual gymnasts in the NCAA literally ever.

Kino: I think there's two

Blake: I think we know we know of you and one other person. So how does it feel to be out? How does it feel to be one of the first people to talk about being bi and being a gymnast?

Kalyany: It feels really cool, but also like, it's weird, it's so weird to think that I'm like one of the first bi like, out bi gymnasts or something like that. I don't know, it's crazy, but it's really cool.

Kino: It is really cool, I mean and uh and we saw it in such a public way because we got to see Deanna's video, so that was really interesting. Like we've never got to see something like that before and I think that's super special. Like honestly it made me cry personally as someone who's also bi like it was just, I don't know, it just made my heart really full and just to see like all of it and it was just like all the support and it just I had a lot of feelings. It made me, I always have a lot of feelings that's what I always say, I have so many feelings. and it, but ahh that video made me it gave me a lot of feelings. I can't express the feelings that it gave me other than the fact that it made my heart like so full.

Kalyany: Thank you so much. That honestly like makes me so happy.

Kino: I'm glad I'm glad it makes you happy. I hope I hope that like good things have come out of it for you.

Kalyany: Yeah, definitely. Even just like internally it feels like I don't know, freeing like

Kino: Yeah, it's like you have a huge weight lifted off of you. Mm hmm And that's that's always a nice feeling.

Kalyany: Yeah, for sure.

Blake: So how did you decide that you wanted to come out in a super public way? I think everyone else we've talked to has been like I started posting pictures of my girlfriend on instagram and then people knew. I think it is different partially because you're bi but also like you just had a different way of going about it. How did that all happen?

Kalyany: Yeah. So I have been thinking about coming out to my teammates for a while and then when, when the week of the pride meet came around I started talking to Deanna a little bit. She was like the first person on the team basically that I came out too and she helped me a lot and she said like, this could be a really powerful thing if I choose to share it because there isn't that bi representation in the gymnastics community and like the sport is pretty heteronormative so it would be like a major thing kind of and I thought that was cool. So

Kino: I mean yeah, I mean and gymnastics is very heteronormative in a lot of ways, but yeah, it is, I mean it is, it was a big thing as you saw, it was a big thing like people were like, oh my God, we've never seen something like this before. I'm glad that Deanna was able to do , you know, a. be that first person for you to come out to but also just like it'll be like, hey, if you want to do this, it is an opportunity.

Kalyany: Yeah, yeah, she was.

Blake: Well I think it shows the importance of somebody like Deanna being on staff, like having queer folks who you could talk to and who you could trust to talk to you about it before you were deciding how you wanted to come out to the team or if you wanted anything public or before even  crossed your mind to do something so public. A couple people had asked us how is it impacted you to have queer coaches and queer staff members around you the whole time that you've been at UCLA

Kalyany: I mean it definitely showed me like kind of how, how they were treated by everyone else and they were completely accepted and that gave me some more clarity that like, okay, I can trust these people. So yeah,

Blake: That makes so much sense. Like if you could just see how other people are being treated, it was like, oh well it's not gonna, it's probably not going to be vastly different for me.

Kalyany: Yeah

Kino: Yeah, I mean it would be like very concerning if it was different if you were just like, if you came out and then it wasn't the same, would be like, okay, hey, wait, what's different about me and there shouldn't be anything different.

Kalyany: Yeah

Blake: So we got to see some of the team's initial reactions when you came out, we talked to Norah about how she just like immediately jumped over and hugged you. what else did the team say or do to show you their support that we didn't get to see?

Kalyany: I mean it wasn't even anything specific people said just like honestly the general vibe like, everyone is allowed to be unique on this team, there isn't a certain box that you have to fit to like make you cool or whatever. I don't know. But yeah, it was just a general feeling.

Kino: Yes, I mean that is one of the things that I like the best about UCLA as a team is that you have so much diversity in the sense of like everybody is a unique individual and that's definitely celebrated, I feel like that's what the appeal like, we've always we've always said we're big UCLA fans and one of that is one of the reasons like you don't have to fit in some very specific box. It's not like oh this person can't go to UCLA Because they wouldn't fit in. It's like no, like anybody can go to UCLA And anybody can be on the gymnastics team and there's not like, I don't know it's not you don't have to look a certain way, you don't have to be a certain way. It's just I think it's a nice thing. So this leads into one of the questions that we have from LovesGym on twitter which was why did you choose UCLA And one of our other listeners, Megan, she's a great friend of the podcast. She asked you like choose UCLA because it was welcoming for LGBTQ+ folks or was that just a coincidence like was it because of the culture or just you chose to go to UCLA And then you figured out these other things about yourself and it all just worked out.

Kalyany: I mean I definitely loved the fact that there was so much diversity within the whole school that wasn't like a deciding factor necessarily. and like obviously the academics and gymnastics is amazing but like you can you can find a lot of schools with those qualities. Like what really stood out to me with UCLA Is kind of how the team had this culture of like I don't know they all look like they love each other so much and I would watch them on tv and they always looked like they were having so much fun and very passionate about what they were doing more than a lot of the teams I've seen and so yeah the LGBTQ+ acceptance was a perk. I wasn't necessarily expecting it but it was it was cool.

Kino: It's like the icing on the cake.

Kalyany: Yeah.

Blake: Yeah someone else had asked outside of like the team and athletics how has it been for you to just like be a bi person at UCLA And they asked because they're an LGBTQ+ person whose dream school is UCLA.

Kalyany: Honestly it it kind of felt like nothing really had changed very much besides just like what I was feeling myself. But yeah it didn't really feel like my life changed a ton. Like outside the internet.

Kino: Yeah the internet is where like whoa like everything kind of exploded. I mean that's good. I mean I'm glad that like campus life didn't necessarily change for you. You just get to be Kaly you get to live your life go to UCLA

Blake: I'm guessing it's just like relatively low key and like doing your thing And how many students does UCLA have?

Kalyany: It's massive

Blake: 80 million. I don't know it's not, I'm kidding. I'm kidding. It's a lot. it's too many. Have you gotten to connect at all with any of the LGBT resources or events or organizations or anything at UCLA?

Kalyany: So I haven't yet but there are a few like, not clubs, I don't know what to call them. There are a few things I want to check out.

Kino: What do we call them in college student organizations?

Kalyany: That sounds right

Kino: It's hard like words are hard. Okay. Yeah well you're also really busy too like you're an athlete so you've got a lot of, you're like I've got to go to practice and do homework and still somehow have a social life you know like or at least, like even if that social life is very small like you , my social life was very small in college but like you still you still got to exist and you know get through everything. I hope you get to be a part of those things though.

Kalyany: Yeah. Thank you. I definitely want to check them out. I feel like I'd probably make some friends there and that would be cool.

Blake: That was I asked partially for the person who wants to go to UCLA Just to so that they hear that like things exist but I also asked because I used to be like person who ran that stuff at a university and I got that job because I was a student who got involved in stuff. And then it was like totally life changing. And I met all of my closest friends and my first like long term person that I dated and like figured out all sorts of identity stuff. And so yeah those those spaces and organizations and stuff are really cool and UCLA has a ton of stuff.

Kalyany: Yeah definitely.

Blake: Which is nice.

Kalyany: So growing up, you're a little bit younger than us so you probably have a little bit more of this. But so like who are some of the characters in like TVs books and movies that you turn to for bi representation? because there's a lot. And if not like how has the lack of bi representation impacted you Because even like as a five years ago When I was in my early 20s there was a very big lack of by representation in media. And if it was there it wasn't always like the best representation. It was always like very stereotypical which, Blake got a really weird look on his face, or were you just agreeing?

Blake: It makes me so mad because even now it sucks a lot of the time.

Kino: Yeah. But do you have anybody like that? Like you were like. Yeah like this is totally cool. There's this like bi character in anything or is there not? Like we're old people

Kalyany: The first bi like internet personality that I found out about and like, don't come for me, he is canceled right now. But Shane Dawson

Kino: We won't come for you, don't worry.

Kalyany: And for a while he was pretty much the only person I knew about. But also growing up, since I was like 12 or something, my favorite show has been Will & Grace, The original one.

Kino: Not the reboot?

Kalyany: I do like the reboot, but nothing beats the original one.

Kino: Oh yeah

Blake: So you had some like queer representation there. And also like didn't we all love either Will and Grace or one of those shows and it's like, oh, that was a sign that I missed

Kino: Right? But Will and Grace was the show that even straight people liked. Like straight conservative parents might like Will and Grace, like mine.

Kalyany: yeah,

Blake: do you have any follow ups to that Kino as the as the resident bisexual?

Kino: Not the resident because we have more than one bisexual here today? I don't know. Yeah, there's just there isn't really a lot of by representation in media or you know, or athletes either. Like we don't really see, you don't really see it at all. I'm trying to think if there's any, there's a figure skater fairly recently. I can't remember her name

Kino Voiceover: That figure skater is Amber Glenn who identifies as bi/pan

Kino: But there's not a lot of representation. We kind of get ignored sometimes. People sometimes don't think we're real, like we're ghosts. Like we don't exist. Although I guess I think some people think ghosts exist. So I guess it's like being a ghost, some people think you exist, some people think you don't.

Blake: I don't know of any bi athletes in any sport except for the two I know of in gymnastics

Kino: And this one in figure skating, I just told you about. No, I don't either. I can't think of any like and we've we've asked about that before. Like were there any LGBTQ+ athletes that people have looked up to and they're like, are there any? That are in sports that you like? You know, because if you watch gymnastics, you're gonna like other sports too. That's not really the issue. It's more of, like the sports that you're watching, you're not seeing them in gymnastics. You're not really seeing that, we see queer people in like, softball and soccer, but if you're not into softball or soccer,

Blake: Or women's basketball

Kino: Oh, women's basketball, everybody's girlfriend is a woman's basketball player

Blake: It's true

Kino: Anybody we've interviewed who is dating someone is like, oh yeah, my girlfriend's on the basketball team and I'm like that tracks

Blake: One soccer, we do have one soccer player

Kino: That's true, we do have a soccer player.

Blake: The other gay sport

Kino: Do you know of anybody, is that a thing like that? Any, any bi athletes at all?

Kalyany: I don't

Kino: Like 'I'm the bi athlete'

Blake: It me

Blake: So a couple of people asked about gymnastics stuff, this is going to be like a long form question because I have to read a bunch of Twitter names.

Kino: Wait, this is a gymnastics podcast?

Blake: A gymnastics question. Alright, so a friend of the podcast Summer, who's Twitter is @GlasgowTFBronze and also Emily, who's @bunnyflips99 asked what are your gymnastics goals for this season?

Kalyany: I want to definitely compete in more events. That would be cool.

Blake: Yay

Kalyany: Yeah

Kino: I mean that's what we want for you too

Blake: what events are you trying to be in?

Kalyany: I mean, any of them, all of them, maybe.

Kino: Ooh, vault, usually vault is the one that people ditch. So I'm just like you said any of them and I'm like, oh, even vaults.

Kalyany: Yeah, I think bars and vault are my best events.

Kino: What vault are you training? and if you don't want to say that you don't have to tell us or we'll cut it out, but I'm just curious.

Kalyany: So I competed a double full for like a lot of years and then just this last year, I was trying to learn a 1.5.

K:Okay

Kalyany: Yeah, I think I still want to try to do it 1.5

Kino: Is it hard to like, get do less?

Kalyany: Sometimes

Blake: That one, it seems like it is

Kalyany: You want to try really hard and then I do too many twists.

Kino: Oh, okay, I was like, I think I missed the answer to that question, but

Blake: Isn't there something about because like, the double and the single are easier than the 1.5 because of like how your landing, because of the blind landing?

Kalyany: Yeah, sometimes.

Blake: I didn't do none of it, so who am I?

Kino: So yeah, vault was this when I did my brief stint in gymnastics, vault was my worst because you have to run at a stationary object. I don't like running at something and then having to jump over it. That's terrifying.

Blake: I love it because I can do it,

Kino: No

Blake: I like it because I can do it because I have legs. I have legs, I have thighs, I have no arms, we use all of this like Polish butt power and like, fling myself over this thing, I can do that, that's fine.

Kino: No, vault is scary. Okay, A lot of fears.

Kalyany: Yeah, I totally get that. Honestly, I cannot think about gymnastics super intensely or else I'll be like, what the heck am I doing? Like, what am I about to do?

Blake: It's like, wait a minute

Kino: And you actually know how to do them.

Kalyany: Yeah

Kino: That's dreamy, if I have a dream where it's gymnastics dream, which isn't very frequently and I bring this up all the time, but I can do the gymnastics until I realize I'm dreaming and that I can't do them in real life and then my brain is like, oh you can't do what you said you were going to do even though you did it five seconds ago in the dream because you know you can't do it, especially things that involve twisting,

Blake: I cannot figure out how to twist that.

Kino: I know I like watch people twist and I'm like how do you know to twist while also flipping through the air and land?

Blake: Can't do it.

Kino: Like air awareness obviously. Is air awareness something that's hard to like gain, like do you get that pretty quickly as a kid when you're training gymnastics or do some people never get it, like you just are like, oh, I hope I'm gonna land, it's not safe, I'm just saying

Kalyany: I feel like you have to get some air awareness at some point if you're doing gymnastics,

Kino: Do some people have more than others?

Kalyany: Yeah, yeah, I would say for some things like twisting actually comes pretty easily to me for some reason I like always know where I am. Yeah, but that's not the case for some people

Kino: Right

Kalyany: I don't know

Blake: So now that you've been out publicly for like, six-ish months now, you've grown, you've learned some things you're going into sophomore year, what is the advice that you would give to LGBTQ+ gymnasts, especially bisexual gymnasts?

Kalyany: I would say be yourself and like, I'm not going to say don't be afraid because like literally I'm afraid all the time, but once you kind of get more comfortable with yourself and have complete acceptance, you're gonna find the people in your life who like truly matter and who accept you for who you are. Yeah, and then you'll get closer to them.

Kino: I can't, it's just so great.

Blake: I think that that's for me ,that just just like reflects everything that we wanted this podcast to be about. That we wanted folks who we're LGBTQ+ in gymnastics, especially folks with identities that we like hadn't really seen anybody come out with in the sport, to just like feel like they have permission to exist and to be in the sport and that they can be themselves and for, I think for both of us, the timing of us being a podcast in your video coming out and it was really impactful and special for us to like have this platform and to be starting to really think about this and dig into this topic and then for you to come out, especially in your freshman year, especially as bi, knowing how people can be to bi folks, There's like very few things in sports that have ever made me that emotional and that hopeful. And I'm glad, I'm so glad you had Deanna to help you through that process. I'm really glad that it seems like at least for the most part people have been kind and good to you because it is super important and it means a lot to a lot of people and I know that you see some of it online, but like it's a lot, it's a lot of people. Kino, did you want to say anything?

Kino: I think I'm gathering my thoughts I guess, sorry, I looked up your USA gymnastics profile and it literally says your favorite tv show is Will and Grace. And that made me laugh because that's what you just told us. But even back whenever this was written when you were a junior in high school apparently, um, it literally says that your favorite show is Will and Grace and that's great. I just think it's really, really funny also that your favorite food is Johnsonville Original Breakfast Sausage. That's very specific. That's what it says. I love it so much.

Kalyany: That's still very much relevant.

Kino: Love it so much. It's so specific

Kalyany: It's been my food forever.

Kino: It wasn't just I like breakfast sausages, like I like Johnsonville Original Breakfast Sausage, and Cambodian food. I do think it's going to be a very specific distinct moment in history in gymnastics history, no matter how you look at gymnastics history, and you're going to have, you know, kids. There are kids now who are seeing you as like, they look up to you and that's not to be like a pressure thing. They're just like, yeah, there is someone like me in my sport and they're going to be kids down the line and they're going to be like, yeah, it was a Kaly who did this, you opened the door for a lot of kids to express how they feel. And I think that's really important, especially because you are, you're about to be a sophomore in college and you're like, yeah, this is who I am and I'm in this sport that doesn't necessarily Seems like it's a space for non, for people who don't fit in some sort of heteronormative identity, but you opened the door for that and I just think that's really important. I think that it's more important than we realize even now you do

Kalyany: Thank you guys so much for saying that. That's like, honestly, so amazing to hear. It means a lot.

Blake: It's huge and I don't want that to be a thing that like, it's like extra like crazy pressure or anything either. Like, I think that's what we think we run the risk of like being like, well I have to represent everybody now, but like,

Kino: No you don't

Blake: But you know, it's just so wonderful

Kino: You did something for you and it just reached a lot of people, I think that that's how I see it.

Blake: Yeah

Kino: Like you did something for yourself, you didn't do it necessarily to be like, I need to change the world. It just happens to be something that has like really inspired a lot of people, I think that's the way to look at it.

Kalyany: Yeah, thanks!

Blake: So we got this message in like mid-August and I had read it, but we hadn't talked about it on the air at all and I hadn't responded to it and it was this guy who's gonna be anonymous, I asked for names to help name this anonymous person, So we got this message from John and then we got another message from him and I just want to read them to you, that will make sense once I start reading I promise. Okay. So John said, I'm gonna paraphrase a little bit and take out a couple of his details, they said:

"Hey, I just wanted to say thank you for this podcast and all of the interviews you do with people describing their experiences with coming out, I don't want to get into details, But in his 30s, has kids, has been pretty recent in his life, that he's kind of realized that he wasn't straight and when he saw your video, because we posted it on our podcast account, it says that it started to give him some hope that it might be okay, but that it might never and that that might be okay too, anyway, sorry for being about me, when I just want to say thank you for the great podcast"

So I hadn't responded and then we posted that we were asking for questions for you, and he messaged again and said,

"Okay, this news just made me cry, sorry, all over the place. But I love the 'Love, Kalyany' video. It's the reason I was able to start coming to terms with being gay after years of a bad marriage. I was content with sending it away. My world didn't feel like I could find acceptance, still not out for a variety of reasons, but I'm at least content with who I am"

And so I don't know how the universe planted that in his lap, but for whatever reason, he credits a lot of that to seeing you and your bravery. And so I just wanted to make sure that you heard that

Kalyany: Wow. That's so amazing. I don't know what else to say

Blake: You're allowed to not know what else to say.

Kino: Yeah. You're allowed to not know. You don't have to know what to say to everything. I didn't realize the second part. You had told me about that, but you didn't tell me about the second part.

Blake: Yeah, I know right. So I wanted to read that and that you were so important for him. But I'm gonna ask the easy one, which is, are we thinking of changing up the bar routine? Are we thinking of keeping it similar because it's wonderful? Do we have plans for upgrades? What's the deal with bars?

Kalyany: I definitely want to try to upgrade it a little bit. Yeah. Yeah, I don't really have much to say about that.

Blake: That's okay. You know what upgrades do you know what upgrades you want to add? If you want to say/are allowed to say

Kalyany: I might wanna add a Van Leeuwin

Kino: Add a Van Leeuwin, That's exciting! Do it.

Blake: Mm hmm.

Kino: We're always like, add all the upgrades

Blake: Don't get hurt.

Kino: Yeah don't get hurt. Train safe. We don't want anybody to get hurt. We would be so sad

Blake: Yeah, you're not allowed to be injured at all. Just so you know. Is there anything that you wanted to talk about or say that we didn't get to?

Kalyany: I don't think there was anything else. Yeah.

Blake: Kaly, thank you so much for joining us. Good luck with this season. Stay healthy.

Kino: We can't wait to watch you.

Blake: We appreciate your time.

Kino: Yes, we do. And we're so excited to cheer you much.

Kalyany: Thank you so much!

Kino: Oh yes, come back whenever you want, Okay? If you ever need to talk about anything, just be like, hey, I want to come back and we'll be like, okay, catch up with Kaly!

Blake: Thank you to Kaly for being such a wonderful guest. We really appreciate her coming on and we're excited for you to all listen to this interview. If you want to follow us on social media, you can go to any of our social media accounts and you should find the link tree which will get you to everything including how to listen to episodes. Our Patreon and our TeePublic store, our Twitter and Instagram are @HIHOPodcast, our email is HalfInHalfOutPodcast@gmail.com. We're also on Facebook, we've got the Patreon and as of right now we are officially making enough money on Patreon to cover our expenses. So thank you very much to everybody who has supported us.

Kino: Thank you so much. Yeah, we might be able to pay ourselves back.

Blake: I know it's gonna be great. And then we also still have the TeePublic store, I am going to put in another order for myself and get some masks to where at gymnastics.

Kino: I just read an article today actually that was like when is the mask bubble going to pop?

Blake: Right, some of the masks are really cool, so I'm going to get myself a couple of those. I featured some more designs from other artists as well, so go check out our store if you haven't been there in a little bit, there's some new stuff for you to see

Kino: And to go back to, we are on most podcasting platforms at this point.

Blake: Yes

Kino: We finally got that squared away. If you're not an apple person, you can easily listen to our podcast elsewhere.
