Episode 22 - Kaiya Lindhardt

Kaiya: I think Division three is something that is incredibly not talked about enough, I think more girls need to look into it, and more girls need to consider that going division three you're not losing any praise, you still made it to college gymnastics. That is what I trained for my entire life and just because I did not go D1 and I didn't get a scholarship that does not make me any less of a college gymnast than a division one athlete.

*****


Blake: Welcome to another episode of Half In Half Out Podcast, I'm Blake taking the intro solo today. It's been a bit of a rough week for Kino so send her some love @thewolfkino on Twitter. So this week we are talking to Kaiya Lindhardt of University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire, and this was really an amazing conversation and I'm so glad we got to talk to her.

She's the first D3 athlete that we've talked to, and I'll be upfront and say that I haven't paid nearly enough attention to division three gymnastics in my time as a gymnastics fan, so we kind of asked Kaiya to pitch D3 to us, and why athletes should take a look at it, why fans should take a look at it and I'm totally sold so I can't wait for her season to start so we can watch her. We just had an amazing conversation and for me, what really stuck out was that Kaiya is dating a trans guy and it meant so much to me to be having a conversation with someone in a gymnastic space who was fluent in trans-ness and who had trans-ness interacting with their daily life. She's just amazing and so easy to talk to and so I'm really excited for you all to hear from Kaiya, but first I'm going to go over some of the meets that we've seen since the last episode. We're actually going to get to hear all the way up to this weekend, so we're going to catch up a little bit.

So starting all the way back at the end of January, we had Missouri at Florida, Florida won with a 197.85, amazing score for them. It's Florida, so we know that there's some, some home scoring going on but overall really great job. Sav had an amazing 9.85 vault as well as a 9.925 tying for second on bars. So that was a phenomenal night for Sav.

Next, we had Arkansas at Georgia, Arkansas won with a 196.875, Georgia came in at a 195.95, Both teams did An amazing job. Overall, Alyssa got a 9.875 on floor which tied her for third and it also was the top floor score for Georgia of the night. So it's really nice to see her getting those passes under control and just absolutely killing it on floor. The next day, we had Washington at Utah and we know Washington is still building as a team. Talia had a 9.55 on beam. Utah ended up winning that meet obviously, but Washington continues to make progress week by week. Next we had UCLA at Arizona, UCLA coming in at 196.75 Arizona at a 195.075 and Kaly was out for this meet, Norah was out for this, we didn't get to see a scored routine from from Sara Taubman, three people that we've decided to particularly care about and as we'll hear about throughout all of this, Chae and Marz are just absolute rock stars and they killed it at this meet and they have been killing it at every meet.

Moving into the next week we had UNC, Pitt and Towson at N. C. State and this was a cool meet because at UNC we have Tina [] when who isn't competing yet, but is there we've got Kylie Robatin, who recently came out as bisexual after Pitt's pride meet, so she's at Pitt and then the head coach for Towson is is a queer person and so we had a lot of queerness in the building which was nice. Kylie got a 9.775 on beam, wonderful job for Kylie. I also noticed that there's a person at Towson named Nicky Borkowski, my last name is Bonkowski. So hello probably cousin. It's funny, I had a double take when I was looking at the scores.

We also had Oregon State at Washington and I watched this and I think I recorded it. The scores website isn't working now because there's been another Washington meet and so it's showing me the UCLA scores, but go back and watch Talia. She did a great job. And then we had BYU at UCLA, the meet that we all know should have been a pride meet. What's honestly  most interesting about this meet has been the Gymternet and people learning for the first time what Brigham Young University is about. And a thing of note was that, and thankfully they showed this on the broadcast, but we normally have the athletes out for national anthem but they had all the athletes out to have a moment of kneeling and display of solidarity for the black community and BYU did participate in that. It seemed everybody from BYU was there, you know, theoretically some people could have decided not to be present, but people were remarking about that and how that was really cool to see, especially from BYU and someone from BYU got a little defensive and was like, I'll have you know that half of our team supports the LGBT community, which isn't a thing to brag about because you just said that half of your team is aggressively homophobic. So that's been an interesting conversation on twitter, especially since this meet.

The other really notable thing here is that BYU almost won, BYU had a 196.325. UCLA had a 196.6. We didn't see Kaly or Norah but we had absolutely amazing all around performances from Chae, Marz and Nia. So then moving into this past weekend we had Alabama at Georgia and that was really interesting to watch super close. A lot of people were expecting Alabama to take that one but Georgia did win with a 197.275 and Alabama came in at an even 197. Alyssa did a great job on floor with 9.875 and that was a really fun meet too. Watch because it was so, so close and the teams did a really good job. And unlike some other meets we'll talk about, I think those teams were really earning 197s, at least for the most part, which brings us to Florida at LSU. First of all did you know it's the number one and number two team? We needed to be told a million times, especially funny that LSU kept saying it's the number one and number two team without clarifying that they were the number 2 team and I know we complain about scoring a lot. I'm not gonna stay on this too long. We obviously all complain about scoring all of the time and none of us are judges and it's a hard job. The only frame of reference that I have for how hard that job is, I was a softball umpire for one season is one of the hardest things I've ever done. I hated it. I was not good at it and I can only imagine being a judge can feel similarly the worst feeling was parents yelling at me because I was making a bad call and it's not that they weren't right, but I was doing the best I could and so all the credit to the judges who are doing the best they can and a really hard job and also, I don't know if that's true of these judges because wow, the over scoring was insane, just absolutely insane. These athletes don't need it at all. They are phenomenal.

This is the number one and number two team, you have all of this incredible talent and they don't need any favors on the scoring. Now, that being said, you also had some issues on the other end of the scoring spectrum to me, at least because I would have given Trinity a 10 on vault, a 10 on bars and a 10 on floor. She got a 10 on floor. She ended up with a 9.975 on vault and bars, 9.95 on beam I probably would have given her three tens and I really don't say that lightly, but that vault, that was, I think that was a 10 vault. I could be wrong. I might have missed something, but let's give her the 10, good lord. Other scores were a little elevated so you know, watch if you want to watch it, watch it for the sake of watching really good gymnastics, maybe don't pay attention to the scores. It was a really close meet. We have this great video of Florida watching the scoreboard as if it was nationals, oh my God we won! Because winning matters. But they did an amazing job. Really heartbreaking ending for LSU but they both put up an amazing, amazing fight down to the very last routine.

So next we had New Hampshire at LIU, LIU's first ever meet. And it was funny to watch, especially after having that D3 conversation with Kaiya, it was funny to watch. even though LIU is D1 it was funny to watch this meet that was in a gymnasium and how folks thinking why does this look it's in a high school gym? Because it's in a gym and that's okay. We had a lot of our friends helping out at that meet. So we had Dr Sam there, we had lots of cool folks who were helping out with running cameras, taking pictures, running Twitter, running across the arena to take a picture of someone, but they all did an amazing amazing job. I did text Randy up top to be like, hey, you're mic's hot. So folks heard that I did try to, I did try to swoop in and save them there, but I love that they come out to the jaws theme. The scores website didn't work, it's the first meet so I would talk about scores, but I have no idea what they were, but I really love to see the Gymternet coming together, everyone was so excited and no, it wasn't that people were rooting against New Hampshire really, they were just rooting for LIU and you know, they are going to be an amazing program as they continue to grow and figure things out. The primary note I would say is just like, they gotta get their vaults start values up to be competitive with most of the other teams that they would be competing against, but it was really, really great to see Randy, just so happy over in the corner and to see Hallie (Mossett) and her coaching blue suit and I'm really excited that we get to work with them.

We get to talk about now, they announced that their next meet is going to be a pride meet and then following that they're gonna have a Black Lives Matter meet, and those are in the same weekend a couple of days apart, so me and Kino are helping with both of those. We're really excited that this is how this team is deciding to spend their first season, so we're super happy for them. Congrats to LIU on an amazing first meet, the first new D1 team in 18 years. So it's really amazing.

And then lastly, we had yesterday valentine's day meet for UCLA at Washington. UCLA won with a 195.625, Washington finished out with a 193.5 and this is because the scoring was fair, this is a score that UCLA deserves, this is closer to the score UCLA might have deserved in some other meets and honestly, there might have been a couple areas where I might have given a couple of extra tenths to Washington, A couple extra tenths, But for the most part this was fair. Washington stayed on their track of 193.5 and one of the things I really loved about this coverage. So first we have two bisexual athletes competing against each other for the first time ever that we know of. And the coverage really was highlighting Talia, in the way that when there's downtime in a Florida meet they cut to Trinity, they cut to Talia. They are building her up as their star and I love that, I'm really excited. I hope that that's actually what's happening because she is amazing. Kaly was back. She got a 9.725 on bars, obviously her first bar routine back, it's still an amazing score. She did a really really good job, had a big step back on the dismount, I noticed maybe one handstand short but it it looked really, really good and I was really proud of her coming back. Marz won all-around because she was the only one that competed all-around but she had a 39.325. Sara Taubman competed her first scored floor Routine ever for UCLA and that was so exciting to watch. Talia ended up with a 9.7 on bars and a 9.85 on beam and that beam score in particular is really clutch for that team. That was a big, they really needed that routine so we're excited to watch the meets this week.

It'll be nice to have Kino back to talk about things with again, send her some love @thewolfkino on twitter, everything's fine, it's just just a bad week. So I'm excited for you all to hear our interview with Kaiya Lindhardt of UW Eau Claire. Hi, thanks for joining us, how you doing?

Kaiya: I'm good, how are you guys?

Kino: We're fine, we're surviving the universe.

Blake: Like not the best week but big picture, everything's fine.

Kino: Yes, I'm not just saying this, but this is truly the only part of my day I was looking forward to. I was like, okay, I can get through today. Get to our interview with Kaiya today and we'll be fine

Blake: Especially for you two because they get big bisexual energy today. Mm hmm. I think this is great.

Kino: Yes.

Blake: Okay. So how has (gestures broadly) this been, how's life? How's gymnastic stuff? I know y'all haven't been in training in that natural season yet. How is all that going?

Kaiya: It's been pretty good. It was really hard to go from, you know, waking up every day for weights and practice and class. Everything in person, to flying back home to Colorado and then just literally spending every day sitting on the couch doing nothing. Online school, which was a harsh awakening, but I think it was good. It gave me the summer to kind of reevaluate. And I think it made me learn that I actually do like gymnastics and that I do still love it. Which was a good way to tell, because I missed it so much. A lot of girls I think took that time and realized maybe I don't miss it that much. Maybe this break has made me realize it's time to be done.

Blake: I did not think of that at all.

Kino: I hadn't thought about it. You're the first person who's brought that up.

Kaiya: Yeah. My mom asked me do you still love it even after all this? I was like 'yeah' and she was like are you still itching to get back in the gym? I was like 'yeah', she's like, well then I guess you should probably keep doing it.

Kino: That's a good sign though.

Kaiya: Yeah it was

Kino: Hey you're not burned out yet,

Blake: How has the school part been, what are you doing in school?

Kaiya: Right now all of my classes from last semester were online and I was supposed to have one in person this semester but it got moved to online, so I have not been in the classroom since March of last year.

Kino: Oh God. What's your major

Kaiya: Public health, political science

Kino: I'll always want to know people's major

Blake: I'm an academic advisor so I'm a nerd for it. That's a really cool combo. How did you get the idea for that combination?

Kaiya: Well I started out as nursing and I still knew I wanted to do something in the medical field because it's just something I'm drawn to, and my mom's a nurse in the ER so she taught me a lot when I grew up and I just learned to love it. Honestly I think it was more during the pandemic. I started to realize that I can do more in the medical field, but more on the policy side rather than hands on, which, I mean I'm a CNA so I still do hands on stuff and I would love to keep doing that. But it was kind of an eye opener for me that maybe I want to do more something in the political policy realm of health care. So that's really cool

Kino: Yeah, I am always just really excited to hear what people are really passionate about outside gymnastics. I'm always like you're in school, I want to know what you're doing in school. So you actually are the first person to reach out to us after a few listeners had already brought up your name and you told us that you were bisexual and competing at Wisconsin. I can't pronounce it, Eau Claire. (like oh Claire)

Kaiya: Oh I did, yay

Kino: Wisconsin Eau Claire. So how did you find us?

Kaiya: Honestly, just through Instagram, I saw a few gymnasts tag you guys and I found your instagram page and I thought it was really cool. So I followed along

Blake: Ah, that's so exciting, people on instagram, that makes me feel good about spending time doing that.

Kino: I'm glad that somebody is seeing it on instagram. I know. Have you found a platform that you can do both?

Blake: I did. No, that's not true. I found one that I was supposed to be able to do both but it works. I can do twitter and facebook but the instagram part just doesn't work.

Kino: Oh well that's that's really interesting that you found us through instagram and yeah, it is really nice though, I the fact that you approached us. Yeah

Kaiya: well I just like to reach out and just let you guys know that I liked what you were doing. I don't know, I thought it was cool, I think it's very unique.

Blake: Thank you, thank you. Yeah, originally our whole thing was like, we met each other and we were queer people who like gymnastics and we're like, why are there no queer people in gymnastics? Maybe if we talk enough about why there aren't, eventually we can make things better and then everybody came out all at once

Kino: It like really exploded.

Blake: Okay, so now we're just going to talk to all these people because that's way more interesting

Kino: right? And not to say, we are the reason it exploded, but we just happened to exist at the correct time

Blake: Yeah we maybe start in January and then people coming in and during a little bit during season and then after season Yeah,

Kino: great. I know our entire setup of what we were doing completely changed. we were like, oh my gosh occasionally we'll probably do an interview and now it's like, oh my gosh, okay, we're talking to so many people, and it's so great

Kaiya: yeah that's so great

Kino: I think that it's giving people a space to talk about how gymnastics just hasn't been a super queer space and I think it's opening up to be that a lot more, which is really nice

Kino: we've always said tons of the fans are queer

Kaiya: Yeah, yeah

Kino: That's not the issue, it's just like, oh,

Blake: just pretending these people don't exist in the actual sport for some reason, and I they have many theories, but it'll take a lot of time and it's ridiculous,

So to the extent that you're comfortable sharing about it, what was it like for you in terms of coming out in gymnastics spaces? When did that start happening for you? What was that like?

Kaiya: I started out in club, I guess I wasn't really, there wasn't a formal coming out to anyone on my team, it was kind of just the girls that I felt closest to, I kind of just felt out what I thought this space would be and if it would be a safe thing for me to do and talk about, and I think eventually I just kind of started dropping subtle hints and seeing what would happen, kind of getting the perception that I needed to, and then I opened up to my closest friends who were on my team and then eventually it became something that everyone knew about me, I didn't come out to my coach, my head coach from club until at least last summer or the summer before after I had graduated and he was just like, okay, I mean I kind of knew, but most people that's kind of what they tell me. They're like, yeah, I pretty much knew and I'm like, just thought I'd tell you

Kino: Like yeah, well I'm officially telling you

Kaiya: exactly

Blake: Have people ever told you, if you're asking why do you like, how did you know?

Kaiya: I, most people just don't have a straight answer for me in that sense. Like they're just, I kind of assumed, but I also figured you could be straight. So I just kind of didn't really think about it very much. And I was like, yeah, they're like, you're just a very open person and you dye your hair a lot. So

Kino: Oh my God!

Blake: I was going to ask if they were like, is it because you dye your hair?

Kaiya: I do dye my hair a lot?

Kino: yeah, that's really funny. I know. I remember I told someone once and they were like, oh, oh, I'm not surprised at all. And I was like, okay. Like is it because I had an undercut once.

Blake: It is and also everything, everything else about you

Kino: I mean you're not wrong. This was before I started wearing multi colored sweaters too

Blake: As the one person in the room that doesn't use the word bisexual for themselves. Like I, we've talked about this before with Talia, there is just kind of sometimes this bisexual energy, or there's totally trans energy, that's totally a thing, and even straight CIS people can pick up on it and I think because we're a little bit older than you and I think in our time people more attributed it to other things.

Cameron Esposito talks about this, but she was like, people always call me fat, but I wasn't fat. They just didn't know the word gay. Yeah, that's totally what it was, but it was just you're a weirdo or you're fat or whatever. I think by the time hopefully, maybe you were around, people were just kind of like, maybe that's something gay, which that seems gay adjacent. But I don't know enough to know bisexual energy. It's cool that you were out in club. I don't think we've had a ton of people, we've had some, but not a ton of people who even realized they were queer while they were in club and were able to talk to people about it. I also think one at a time is totally the way to go, nobody's asking for an announcement of anything ever and people are different and require different ways of approaching the conversation.

Kino: but I also that you're just like, yeah, people were like, yeah, I kind of knew and I mean, so were most of those reactions positive then?

Kaiya: Yeah, most of my club reactions were super positive and the friends that I am still my closest best friends are the first people that I told and they don't think they necessarily knew, but it was just one night we were slap happy and it was late at night and I told them outside of the gym, so that also helped and then I was just like, maybe don't tell anyone until you see me tell anyone and they were like, okay, yeah, we'll keep that to ourselves and so that was good.

Blake: That's sweet and very teenage girls in a way and I'm just like, oh I remember that [unclear] slap happy thing

Kino: I mean there have been definitely been times where that's the time when I've come out to a person is like, I'm slap happy

Blake: (I had a) very different coming out experience where I'm having to correct people's assumptions about me, they're thinking the wrong thing, but when it was very this with people being like, oh duh, that was totally what I did. You're originally from Colorado, I was trying to look, I never found a gym where were you at

Kaiya: Premier Gymnastics of the Rockies

Blake: So how did you end up at Wisconsin Eau Claire? And also I saw your video, like why did I go to a school in Wisconsin?

Kaiya: Haha yeah it's really cold. The division three gymnastics world is already extremely small. There's very limited schools to pick from and majority of them are either in Wisconsin and Minnesota or on the east coast. So once I decided in club that I don't want to do, D1 or D2, that I want to just kind of lean towards D3, then it was kind of just picking a school. I already knew I had to go far away from home and I was ready to, I was ready to get out of my small town. And so I visited a bunch of the Wisconsin schools and I visited one up in Westchester in Pennsylvania and then I kind of just fell in love with Eau Claire's community and the town kind of just sucks you in. It's a very sweet place to live, it's beautiful here and I just, I love the coaches and the atmosphere and so it became an easy decision the second that I came there and I knew I wanted to go there and they had a great nursing program and degree that I wanted. So I just kind of ended up here and I knew it was going to be cold and I knew it was definitely going to be a lifestyle adjustment going from the pacific mountain range to the midwest but I loved it.

Kino: At least you still already had cold weather. Like I've seen people who are like, I'm from California, the southern part and then I 'go to snow' as people in California say we're going to go to the snow and I'm just like, that's a choice. You are going to have to buy a down coat.

Kaiya: I was going to say, we have two girls on our team who are from California and they are just dumbfounded by the cold. And yeah, Colorado is a very dry heat or a dry cold. There's no humidity all year round. It's never anything. It's just super dry and high elevation. So it's painfully cold here because it's humid and wet and cold or it's humid and hot and I was not used to that. So it was the extreme end of both of them. But yeah,

Blake: like opposite elevation,

Kaiya: right? And my hometown was a little bit over a mile in elevation. I think it was 5600 ft and here I think it's 800 ft elevation. So yeah,

Blake: I'm gonna take you to how long it take you to adjust

Kaiya: I feel great every time I go anywhere that's not Colorado, because my lungs feel great. But going back, I definitely feel it the second I land on the plane, I'm like, oh, there's the elevation again

Kino: I never thought about that, like living at a higher elevation. I mean I'm sure you're used to it.

Kaiya: Yeah, we had a lot of club meets where people would travel from out of state to compete for our club and the altitude sickness is real and they would get altitude sickness and they would get that and be struggling to breathe

Kino: Isn't that the whole idea of why so many athletes train in Colorado anyway, so that you're already training at that higher elevation? That's just wild. I've never thought about that like, yeah, I mean, I remember we went out to Colorado with my family. I don't know if we weren't doing anything rigorous so I probably really didn't honestly notice it.

Kaiya: Yeah, most people don't, unless you go up in the mountains and go hiking, you probably won't feel it.

Blake: I don't really know anything about the COVID situation in Wisconsin. Michigan is a complete dumpster fire

Kino: Indiana is not so great either. So what's the COVID situation in Wisconsin?

Kaiya: For the longest time we had pretty high numbers. I haven't looked in a while. I know our county is not great. Our school had to get a bunch of funding for testing and vaccines for staff because it was so bad. We get tested every week just to practice and if we go anywhere and come back, we have to get two negative tests just to come back to practice. So over Christmas break, it was so bad that I was home for six weeks.

I went home right before Thanksgiving and I didn't come back until January 3rd because if I came back I would have to fly because I'm not driving 14 hours by myself. So I would fly home and then if I were to come back after the Thanksgiving week, the second I get back, I have a mandatory quarantine for two weeks because I flew and then by the time those two weeks would have been up, it would have been finals week and iI would have gone home again for Christmas and we get to be home for two weeks and then I come back and I have to quarantine again for two weeks. So I would have had zero days of practice and just stuck in Wisconsin in my house alone. So I chose to stay home.

Kino: I mean, it's a very good reason to stay home. My first thought was this is why we need a bullet train in the United States because we can just put people in private cabins. But sorry not to derail it with, oh, I didn't even mean to make a pun. But no, but this is really a problem, because you have people who need to travel on planes and we can't stop plane travel in the sense of you have to travel, but then we have people, there was the case probably about a month ago where the person on the plane had COVID and they lied about having COVID and then when the person was starting to go into medical distress, whoever they were traveling was was like, oh, they have a positive COVID test. And it's like, then why are you on the plane?

I understand if you don't know, but you don't get on the plane with the positive COVID test.

Kaiya: I recently saw an article about the like, it's not necessarily the airplane that you're going to catch COVID on. It's just in the airport, because the airplanes have such high quality air filtration system that you would need to be sitting directly next to somebody who has COVID 54 hours to catch it.

Kino: It's all the things coming with traveling being in a high traffic areas. I mean, I still don't want to be in a metal tube with other people who could be sick

Blake: It's the sheer amount of people who you have to be that close to throughout the day. I mean listen, I get a pat down every time because that's what happens when you're trans. So I get patted down every single time. I don't want to get a pat down during COVID, and I know it's going to happen, but then you're just out for 6-8 weeks.

Kaiya: Exactly well and that's what happened. My boyfriend, who's also trans, he came out to visit me in September and he came out and we flew, well he flew, and he was like, I hate the airport so much and I was like, I'm so sorry but at least you get to see me! It was his birthday weekend, so I bought him a plane ticket to come out and see me, and I felt so bad.

Kino: I'm telling you, trains are the answer.

Blake: Yeah, trains are better. Like I have a shirt that has a person riding a train and it said, but it says 'I like trans'

Kino: Yeah, I actually have a thing about trains. I really love trains and COVID also ruined all my train dreams because I was supposed to go to Korea and Japan this past summer and then that got canceled and my life dream is to ride on a bullet train and I didn't get to do that. But I truly, Pete Buttigieg, you are the transportation secretary, please build a bullet train through the United States. It can be the lasting effect the gay community has contributed

Blake: Tell your boyfriend train is better. Like literally every way but also the airport sucking doesn't stop no matter what. So you do just kind of have to learn to put safety measures in place to where you kind of just learn to keep yourself safe in the moment. Like you take the public pat down, not the private one, you try to minimize the time you're traveling alone. Just look for the queerest person around, or I look for older black women usually, but I'm just look at people who are going to help you all the time. I will avoid flying if I can, we don't ask everybody and everybody talks about it, but I think you're the first person who's been on here who's dating a trans person so that makes me excited. Yeah, I didn't want to give their business to the world but how's that going?

Kaiya: It's so great. I love him. He's the best. Yeah. We grew up together and he also grew up mormon so that's a lot

Blake: Poor buddy!

Kino: Oh my goodness. That's a whole other layer.

Kaiya: So we kind of both came out to each other and helped each other in high school, and then over the last summer we just decided, we were like, do you want to go on a date and I was like, I would love to! So we just kind of reconnected after he came out publicly and everything. So yeah

Blake: That's the cutest thing ever and the most queer people story in the world

Kaiya: My sister always says you guys make up 50% of the LGBT acronym, you guys can't be touched.

Blake: I'm one of those, I'm in one of those relationships too. And so it's like, ah there's been a couple tv shows where they've been competing with other queer couples for spots at a preschool or whatever and the gay white guys and then the interracial lesbian moms will show up with like, one's in a wheelchair and like,

Kino: I know exactly what you're talking about. Why is preschool so competitive. That's the real question.

Blake: So, came out in club. Got to college. Was it kind of just the same where people were just kind of like, I caught the vibe. Did you just tell people individually, how did that go down?

Kaiya: Yeah, I kind of, at that point, I just, I had no shame left. I was just like, I don't care if they find out. I don't care if they judge me. Like, I just, I don't want to hide it in college. I did that in high school and it was boring. So I just kind of, I mean I was publicly out on instagram and so I just was like, if people want to ask me about it, they can, I'm not going to hide it. I'm going to let people know. Yes, I've dated girls and yes, I have dated boys. I think also I came to college without a boyfriend, but this year, the incoming freshmen, I mean you can figure it out. We all have social media and stuff and they knew that my boyfriend was trans and that's usually not something a straight girl would do.

Blake: Especially when combined, like with the energy

Kaiya: Yeah, the dyeing my hair is always the giveaway

Kino: Is it not dyed right now?

Kaiya: It's a little bit. My natural hair is this bleach blonde, but it's, it's a little bit silver right now. Blue and silver. And this is what we have

Kino: Purple! Wait, what are, what are Eau Claire's colors?

Kaiya: Blue and gold.

Kino: No, don't do that. I was going to be do blue and gold! and then I regretted that thought

Blake: every

Kino: I'm really into the blue ends or the colored ends

Kaiya: Blue does not stick in my hair. I've tried blue three different times with three different brands

Kino: fascinating with your natural hair color.

Kaiya: A lot of hairdressers have told me that because my hair is bleach blonde naturally. That since it's not full of bleach chemicals that if I bleached my hair and then dyed it blue, it would work. But because my hair is naturally blonde. It doesn't like to stick.

Blake: So people in college was like, cool?

Kaiya: Yeah, Yeah, because I'm not, I'm not the only one, there was one other girl who was publicly out, she retired this year, but so I guess this year I am the only one at least to my knowledge, so nobody really has a problem with it.

Blake: It is also nice that you weren't people's first person or that in your first year, you weren't the only one being a freshman and being not the only one that is hugely different. And also, I think we haven't talked to anybody who has ever not been, everyone has been the only one at the time, at least as far as we know

Kaiya: Well, it was kind of a cute situation where we had a team bonfire and we were playing Never have I ever, and somebody was trying to point at the other out girl and they were like, never have I ever been with a girl? And I was like, just raised my hand and they were like, wait a minute, It's like, oh yeah,

Kino: Oh, it's so cute though, it's like, it's just, you know, it just, it makes me happy. it makes me really happy. So I guess that kind of leads into the question of have you had any struggles, you've had pretty positive experiences coming out to your club team and your college team, have you had any struggles in gymnastics that you attribute to being bisexual and a gymnast?

Kaiya: For me, the biggest one was just, I didn't want people to look at me differently, it's an all female support. Our team at least, I shouldn't say the sport is female, and so I don't want people to think of me differently or be worried about going into the locker room with me or in the bathroom, there's nothing different about me other than the fact that you know, I have been with women, but that's that's not something that I wanted my teammates to look at me differently for. So I don't know that any of the struggles that I've had have been directly because of my teammates, it's just been internal struggles that I have put together in my mind and determined that oh well people are going to hate you for this and don't try to act so gay around them, none of them are gay so they won't understand anyway, like, you know what I mean? It's just kind of that I didn't want people to be not inviting me places anymore because they're like, oh well she's just going to talk about this the whole time.

Blake: Like they're not talking about boys the whole time, and it's not that you can't talk about boys, you also like boys.

Kino: The Bi experience is, you get to listen to me talk about both. So there's double the amount of things for me to talk about.

Kaiya: Exactly

Blake: None of you are as straight as you think you are. I do not miss that at all

Kino: Oh no, absolutely not. I had that thought process today when I was at work, I was like I'm so glad I'm an adult.

Kaiya: I'm 20 now, so I'm no longer a teenager

Blake: I know, isn't it so much better?

Kino: Truly, so much better.

Blake: just in your own mind, when your brain kind of starts finishing up in there, it's like, oh, I don't give any fucks. None. Exactly,

Kaiya: I have reached a point where none of the people that I was friends with in high school, I talked to two of them, none of the people who I thought had power over me have power over me, it's just a very wild experience.

Kino: That kind of actually is a question that I wanted to ask. So your D3, and for lack of a better phrase, the university does not own you in the way, I mean, I don't know how else to put it. That when you're D1 even probably D2 to to an extent, like, the university owns you in a certain way, that is very uncomfortable just because, you're relying on them for financial support. So do you think that has affected your relationship with competing in college? Because ultimately, you can walk away if you want to and the university, it doesn't necessarily change your university experience

Blake: Especially since you had said you decided on D3

Kaiya: Yeah, I think Division three is something that is incredibly not talked about enough, I think more girls need to look into it and more girls need to consider Division three. That going Division three, you're not losing any like, praise, like, you still made it to college gymnastics, that is what I trained for my entire life, and just because I did not go division one and I didn't get a scholarship, that does not make me any less of a college gymnast than a Division one athlete, and more girls need to realize that, because it is so hard to be a college gymnast in general, like, we still have lifting, we still have nutritionists and strength and conditioning coaches and practices, it's everything that Division one athletes get, but the difference is, we all want to be here, none of us are on scholarship and fighting for a spot on the team, we're all here because we love gymnastics and we wanted four more years to compete, and that's the difference between us, is that we all chose to spend four more years, you know, potentially ruining our bodies because we loved it and because we wanted to compete in it, and so there's a lot more, not to say that there isn't camaraderie in division one, but we're all super close and we all definitely find the love for the sport in a healthier way, So that's why I love Division three,

Blake: I love that. Yeah, we had a former D3 gymnast, a gymnast from (University of Wisconsin at) Ttout, ask us a question, I which I'll get to, but you are totally correct. We should be talking more about D3 and it's one of the reasons why I'm so so, so glad that we decided, to the extent that we can, to cover or at least watch as many as we can. All of the meets that have openly queer gymnasts in them because, I didn't know there were what, five Wisconsin D3 teams until I was looking you up, and we have one other athlete who we haven't interviewed yet who is also in D3, just even having those two teams to watch for me, because then we get to watch all the other teams, Right? Like because there's 14 of you and you're right, there's five in Wisconsin, there's three in Minnesota, There's three in New York, maybe four now, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania

Kino: I just think it has to be a different experience because I just, I feel the pressure of, and obviously people do D1 because if you get a scholarship, it's a free education and there's totally merit to that and all of that, but it is a different experience because ultimately at the end of the day you answer to the university whether that's right or wrong, that's really honestly a debate for a completely different episodes,

Blake: like I work for a D1 school and it's challenging

Kino: I know a lot of people who have gone and done D3 athletics and they're it's great I get to continue to compete in a sport that I love and then I go to school

Kaiya: Yeah, we're definitely students and then athletes, it's definitely in that order.

Blake: Oh that's so good. I also wish that, now that I'm looking at it, Division two is six teams which doesn't make any sense, and then D1 is huge, but there's a ton of teams that are in D1 that I absolutely did not think were in D1

Kino: Like who? I assume everyone's D1

Blake: San Jose State, Sacramento state, I thought Illinois-Champaign was D2 for some reason, I don't know why

Kino: It's also super confusing because then you have schools that are D3 or D2 in some sports, but they're D1 in basketball. Valparaiso, I think they're D1 in basketball, but I think they're D3 in everything else. D2 or D3.

Blake: I wish more schools would do that. Eastern Michigan, I used to work there, so I feel I get to say it, I have a degree from there, Eastern Michigan should not be D1. That doesn't make any sense. They suck at most of them, not gymnastics, their football team is notoriously bad, their gymnastics is wonderful and also probably makes more sense than D2 or D3

Kino: Also it makes sense to be D1 and no offense to gymnastics, gymnastics is not a money making sport for the school.

Kaiya: No

Blake: Let's not do this whole thing

Kino: As much as we would love for gymnastics to be the money making sport. It's not, and I don't know just I guess really want student athletes to be treated better too

Blake: because it sounds a student first. Mhm. Like weren't really kind of worried about being a person,

Kaiya: right? I will say that I have not had a bad experience as a student athlete at Eau Claire. While our program maybe a little bit underfunded, it was hard because of COVID, we're supposed to get in ground pits and the budget had to be frozen so we didn't get those but we definitely are treated with respect and were given all the resources that we need so I really can't complain too much

Kino: if you want to have athletics out of school, you have to treat the gymnast or the athletes, not just the gymnast, treat the athletes well

Blake: I'm a person whose job it is to be a staff member at a university with a counseling degree, who isn't a counselor, because the job of universities is to give you this curated experience of growth inside and outside of the classroom that leads you to have the knowledge you need to pursue whatever career path that you want to do. You can't do that if you are treating your athletes crap or if they're like, not actually doing school because even people who could go to pro athletics, they need something to fall back on, y'all need to be actually getting an education in this process, including outside of the classroom. Like a lot of my job as an advisor is helping people get involved outside of the classroom and a lot like, D1 athletes can't do it, they don't have time. We need more D2 and D3

Kino: We do, because I think college athletics are really important. I just don't think it needs to be the only thing that you're in school for

Blake: There should be three, kind of like, even divisions. This is ridiculous. I'm looking at this chart and I'm like, this is the stupidest thing I've ever seen, why is D2 6 teams?

Kaiya: but also see we also in the Seattle pacific this year and I looked at going to that school. It's a great school. It's really expensive but it's a great school.

Kino: We also just need to have more visibility of D2 and D3 sports to watch

Kaiya: I think our meets are maybe streamed live on our team's own facebook and we're in charge of doing that as a team, our university does not set that up for us. If we want our parents to be able to watch this season because we can't have Spectators. We are in charge of that.

Blake: I'm glad you said that cause I was also going to ask you about it, because because we're trying to watch everyone so it is not just your parents, also us and probably people who are going to listen to this. So if people need help or give you a hard time about streaming stuff or whatever, be like, look, there is an entire community of queers depending on this live stream,

Kino: it's never the team's fault that they're not being streamed either. You know, it's like, can we just please like, yeah, you see all the gymnastics all the time.

Blake: Facebook or Youtube, whatever. It's free

Kaiya: We have a very short and sweet season.

Blake: That was going to the next question, Megan who is from Stout asked with only a four meet season and no conference or national championships for D3 this season, How are you approaching it? How are you handling it? How's the team handling it?

Kaiya: Yeah, I think at this point we're all just extremely grateful that we even get to have a sports season. Like they could have done exactly what they did with fall sports and just said it's too much to deal with. We're just going to cancel it altogether. The protocols are obviously in place, we get tested the day of the meets, they're all on Thursdays and we have to get tested the morning before the meet, our bus ride will be socially distanced. We're going to have all sorts of safety measures in place, masks when we're not flipping and I think we all are just at a point where we've decided We could complain and we can make a big deal out of it because you know, division one gets a certain number of meets, D2 gets a certain number of meets and we get four, no conferences, nothing. But for a lot of our seniors, they're like this is my last year. I'm just going to deal with the fact that we only have four meets and take it as a blessing that my body will not hurt as bad our season doesn't start until later. So there's another blessing that we get more time to prepare and I think we're all just kind of handling it like, well at least we get to compete at least we don't have a canceled season again. So that's kind of where we're at.

Blake: That's awesome that people are looking at it that way. And also it's what D1 teams should be doing because they only actually need four scores, maybe have five, maybe have six for an extra home and away, in case you like, so you can drop one

Kino: Nobody should be having a full season right now, but that's my own opinion

Blake: You don't need 14 meets, it doesn't make any sense. I was worried about y'all because I was making the schedules and stuff kept getting pushed or whatever and like, or I was just getting confused because being so many whatever, I was doing them chronologically and I'm getting through and I'm it's middle of February

Kaiya: Yup, our first meet is the 25th

Blake: Yeah, so I finally did the last one February and I was like, oh thank God yeah, we get to watch Kaiya.

Kaiya: Yeah. Last year our first meet was in Alaska, we flew to Anchorage, Alaska and competed there and I'm pretty sure that meet was right on January 5th, so we got back from Christmas, immediately trained, headed to Alaska and we had a lot of meets last year.

Kino: Kaiya's season starts on February 25th with Eau Claire at Hamlin. On March 11th they will be at Oshkosh, on the 18th of March they will be at Gustavus Adolphus, and on April 1st they will be at Stout. All of their meets this year are in-conference.

Blake: Well what do you think D3 could do to get people to pay more attention?

Kaiya: When you are looking at schools, a lot of the, a lot of what they used to pull you in is, it sounds bad, but aside from the fact that you love gymnastics and doing gymnastics, it's well look at all this gear we get and look at how cool our team photos are and we have this really cool intro video every year and look at our amazing facilities. Like we have equally great facilities, we just don't have an intro video and 14 brand new leos every season, we still have just as much fun, we have a great facility, we have all the people and resources that we need.

It's just a different atmosphere in the sense that we are not getting paid to do that. So like, we have to buy our gym membership, so our rec room that we are required to have lifting, we have to buy the membership for the year, which I'm sure in D1 you probably don't have to, but that's just something that we choose to do because we still want to be on the team. I think if you still love gymnastics enough, but you don't want to be necessarily treated in a division one type of way, Division 2 or 3 is an amazing choice. There are so many schools that have amazing teams and amazing coaches who want nothing more than for you to thrive as a person.

My head coach says that all the time. She's you guys are people first and then you're a gymnast, there's so much to life outside of gymnastics. I want your guys bodies to be able to hold up that you can have kids and you can walk down the aisle if you want to get married one day. Like I want you guys to at least have a good life. So if you're hurting or you're injured or you need a day for mental health, we're not going to tell you not to we're going to encourage you to take that day because that's what you need at this moment

Blake: That's awesome. Because you're not on scholarships are there caps on the size of the team or anything?

Kaiya: Yeah, there's still, I think it's 24 is the maximum size. Yeah, it is a lot

Blake: I just think there's so many athletes who if that was a realistic option in their head for the future or even just an equal option in their head for their future or whatever. Like who wouldn't quit or who, and this is what I think is the real one. Like we had Tienna on when and she talked about her coach didn't put her in the U. S. Elite system. She competed for Vietnam because the US system was just so hard on your body and so abusive and all of that and you can go to a D3 school and just never go through any of that. Like it's not that people don't treat level 10s and nines trash sometimes, but it's not the same on your body

Kaiya: We still have athletic trainers at our practice every day. We have full athletic training facilities at our disposal and they are more than happy to help you with any injury and they take it super seriously. So it's we're definitely taken care of

Blake: and I think you just probably have more juice coming in. Like I think you're all just less likely to be super super messed up coming in, in the body and the mind but also less messed up leaving, probably less likely to get injured and less likely severely and less likely to have serious physical or mental health consequences for life. Like it's for life.

Kaiya: Yeah none of us went through that elite path. So none of us have that intense hardcore TOPS training where we were homeschooled and then went to gym for full time. So that's definitely a big bonus that we can all still be competing all four events our senior year which is my coach's biggest goal is she wants everyone to have all four events by their senior year. We all train them. I mean there are special cases where some girls don't do some events at all, but we all train all four events coming in, even if she knows you're never going to compete it because that's you only have four years left in the sport. She wants you to learn new skills and find the joy in that again

Kino: And you get to compete. It makes me so sad when I see a gymnast who's a senior and finally competing her first routine, or I see a gymnast who is exhibitioning as a senior and never made lineups and it's obviously there are plenty of reasons people don't make lineups and I would never say, don't quit gymnastics but it just makes me sad. I'm you could you could go somewhere and be competing every week and it's a choice that people make because I understand it's also a financial choice if you can get a D1 scholarship and you never can be, it's a financial choice and I get why people do it

Blake: But a lot of people are on those teams, not on scholarship

Kino: Just cutting in to say that the beginning of Kaiya's statement got lost, which was that these gymnasts have been training their entire life to go to college

Kaiya: ... to go to college gymnastics and then you get this huge status. Like I knew I didn't want to go D1 for the one purpose that if I get injured, or I am not good enough to make the lineups, I don't want to just be at a D1 school for the D1 status and like whatever

Kino: It really shouldn't

Blake: Well I just think too, we could have been seeing Sara Taubman this whole time right at UCLA and at even almost any other D1 school we would have been seeing Saras Taubman the whole time, let alone D2 and D2. I'm just gonna keep using UCLA as an example because their lineup is the best in my head but Paige Hogan we just saw she'd be at every week at a D2 or D3 school. I mean people transfer at the end

Kino: Like Mercedes just transferred, it's still D1 but it's going to have a really different experience and not everybody is going to be Sakti and get into lineups after transferring either, you know?

Blake: There's so much to me about what you're saying about people being there because they still love the sport, that to me just as a counselor is just oh my God that is so much healthier, y'all's priorities are in a much healthier place. You're thinking about your bodies and your careers in a healthier way and you're actually getting to do the thing for four more years in a way that most of you probably wouldn't anywhere else

Kaiya: Yeah, we may not score 9.9s and that's not our goal

Blake: They're not really scoring 9.9s either

Kino: How many 9.9s should be a 9.9?

Kaiya: We enjoy meet season more than anything

Blake: I'm excited to watch, especially now hearing that and just kind of like, I could tell when you watch the Pitt pride me for example, I was that is just really good energy and you can tell it everybody is totally into it and I'm hoping that that's what's going to be watching these D3 ones because it seems like that's the energy. I even think to the scoring is also, you can't compare the scoring

Kaiya: No, absolutely not, no, we get club scored which is fine with us, but it's even across all D3 so it doesn't matter

Blake: Right, which is great. It's not even across all D1

Kaiya: Absolutely not. The color on your leotard definitely just determines those last 5 tenths

Blake: So much! And it it blows my mind even to see even just amongst the teams that like, you would kind of think would be scored similarly. Like I live 25 minutes from University of Michigan and I used to work for University of Michigan and they are ranked 8th or something. If you are in this arena at Michigan, you are getting scored way harsher than if you are at any of the other schools, they normally are really competitive with. If you're in the building, it's going to be lower and then Michigan will take that same routine somewhere else and it'll score higher in the building, it's lower. I'm literally like, is it the lights or something? Like there's something wrong with this room, the only judge in Michigan, like is it the same lady every time? Like what's happening? Which is why it shouldn't all, They should also have club scoring, earn your stuff. If you did club scoring on Kyla Ross's routines, I think she would eventually got to 10

Kino: She would have at least gotten one or two in there, but she wouldn't have got one every week.

Kaiya: Right. Like you can go back and watch some of her routines and be like, okay, forget it. Like I got nothing. There's literally nothing I can take, that's a 10.

Blake: We saw two Kyla Ross tens in person, the best day of my life and they were, they were tens. Like I saw that and I was like, oh I get it now

Kino: It's very frustrating because then we would see routines that would not go 10, that we're better than previous 10 routines and we're like, okay, so this shouldn't have been a 10 and this should have

Blake: or neither should have, this one definitely shouldn't have been

Kino: right. If you're going to choose between the one, it should have been this one.

Kaiya: Even Maggie Nichols, like, yeah, How many times did she get? Like 22?

Kino: People talked about how there have also been judges who gave, and this is not just Maggie,

Blake: Peng is another example

Kino: but Maggie hopped on a dismount or something and the judge gave her a 10 and so she ended up getting a 9.975, but it's like, that's not, it's, It's we're devaluing the 10 ultimately. Yeah, paying. I would agree with Peng as well

Blake: Peng was almost always making a correction on the turn.

Kino: Yeah, but it's also this whole like, line up, the whole building. So this is what I think should happen. I think you should submit your lineup. Okay. You say these are my six gymnasts, they put it in a random generator and they say this is the order we're going in. I know that's really bad for you guys, but I think it's better in the sense of like, hey, you have to be prepared to go up first or go up last

Kaiya: That wouldn't matter for us, our lineups don't mean shit

Kino: it would be scored fairly because there's no lineup building, there's no score building and I think it would be great.

Kaiya: Our lineup was based off of like, ok, we know that you have a hard time catching your breath, so we'll put you at the end of the bar line up, so you have the most time to catch up and we know that you to go first and get it over with, so we'll put you first. Like, that was literally, it was just based off of our preference

Kino: Which is how it should be

Blake: You also just proved because it works in D3, it can happen in D1 that you don't have to like put everybody in a random generator, the order doesn't matter. Stop trying to build the scores sometimes, Grace Glenn is the best one, and that's fine

Kaiya: And that's what I was thinking of, Grace

Kino: It shouldn't be a big deal to get a 10 in the leadoff spot because you should be able to get a 10 wherever you are in the lineup.

Kaiya: You're proving that she was never put in a position where she was going to have the chance to get a 10 because you put her in the first place.

Kino: I'm telling you every time random lineup generator, it'll solve a lot of problems

Kaiya: I think that would be genius

Blake: I think that that actually probably is the answer to fixing NCAA, they could just decide to stop being stupid about it, but I think you're right that realistically you would have to do something, you have to do something that because you would have a situation where Nia Dennis goes first or a Maggie Nichols goes first or a Natalie Wojcik goes first and you just have to judge what you just saw. That's the reason we're here

Kino: Yes, judge the routine that's in front of you. You're not judging the color of the leo, you're not judging the name,

Blake: we're solving all our problems today

Kino: I think we should have an episode where it's literally, Let's solve NCAA gymnastics will bring back Kaiya

Kaiya: I have a lot of ideas, I'll start brainstorming

Blake: We will also be like, should just have you back in general because you're lovely,

Kino: You are so lovely

Kaiya: Thank you.

Blake: Hey, we have had people say that we should talk more about D3, so that's always a conversation and I think when anything interesting happens in D3, you can be our correspondent. You're our person we talked to about D3 stuff,

Kaiya: I would love that

Blake: I don't even know any D3 coaches, even the coaches, I know are all D1

*****

Kino: We have literally now interviewed 4 bisexual gymnasts and I'd just to say that when we started this podcast, we never thought that we would interview any bisexual gymnasts. So thank you for existing and being willing to talk to us.

Kaiya: Of course, I am very passionate about this stuff. I think it's amazing what you guys are doing. I jumped at the opportunity to talk to you guys because it's very important to me to have representation for every single person in every walk of life. So I'm very passionate about it and I love it

Blake: That is wonderful. I'm glad you're going into political science and public health.

Kino: It's so wonderful.

Kino: Yes, you're going to do such great things with that kind of thing and it is really important I think because eventually, you know, you have some tiny teen who is going to be like, you know, I'm in gymnastics and I'm queer and I don't know how to do that, but I think it's going to get better, you know, not to be like 'it gets better' but I do think

Blake: By the time it's you, it'll be the trans kid and so it'll be like, it's just kind of perfect. Anyone who goes into public health who has any trans competencies is a complete angel in my eyes as secular early as possible that I'm just like, oh thank God somebody's doing, thank you for being here, you're wonderful, we'll talk to you again soon.

Kaiya: I appreciate it so much, thanks for having me!

Kino: Stay safe and good luck in your season, We're excited to see it

Kaiya: Awesome! Thanks you guys!

Blake: Oh, you're great. Okay, thanks y'all for listening to this episode. If you want to connect with us, you can find us on twitter @HIHOPodcast, instagram is the same. We're also on facebook, you go to any of our social media, you will find a link tree that will take you to our TeePublic store and our Patreon. Thank you so much to everyone who has supported us on Patreon or through TeePublic it makes a huge difference. We're in the process right now of transitioning all of our podcast bills out of my bank account and into our podcast Paypal account because we're starting to get to where we have enough money to do that. So thank you so much. Thank you to Kaiya for joining us and for teaching us about division three gymnastics, Thank you to Megan. I know we said this last week, but thank you to Megan for your generosity in supporting the podcast recently. It's made a huge difference for us and I hope you all have a good week
