null: 

spk_0: I'm a person first. I mean in the second, gymnastics won't matter if something, what happened to me? I think if I was, if I was the next face on the news, gymnastics wouldn't matter. So that's why I feel it's really important to just kind of push those thoughts aside and to just do this because this is so much bigger, gymnastics will eventually end, but I am who I am for the rest of my life. Thank you.

spk_1: Mhm Welcome to another episode of half and half out. The only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast, I'm blake and this week we had the awesome experience of talking again to our friend of the podcast, Morgan Hurd this time we wanted to bring morgan back to talk about her recent speech at a rally in new york city that was addressing hate and racism and violence against the asian american community and her experiences being an asian american adoptee in gymnastics and throughout her life. we end up talking for a really long time and cutting out a lot of us going on tangent conversations but it was really amazing to talk to her again and we're so thankful for more gun spending time having this conversation with us, especially just given, as we say towards the end, all of the emotional labor that comes with having this conversation. There's two things I wanted to mention before we get started with this interview first is just a programming note. so you're hearing this episode on monday after nationals and you're probably like, why aren't they talking about nationals? We are we'll have the episode for you next week. We didn't want to delay putting out this episode with more gun and we need some more time to get our Nationals coverage together. As I'm recording this, it is the day before Nationals start. Very excited and I'm also very excited for the guest we have planned for our nationals coverage. So we will have that for you next monday. The other thing that I wanted to do is to give some resources up top and talk about some ways that you can help support asian american communities during this particularly challenging time. It's something you should be doing all the time and thinking about all the time. but in case you haven't been thinking about it until now. this article will be linked in the description along with a bunch of other resources. But this article is called six ways You can support the api community right this minute. It is from editorialists dot com. The first thing you mentioned is donating. So we'll have some organizations linked in the description that you can donate to. Plus there's the ones in this article, A lot of them are the same two says that you can enroll in bystander intervention training. there are some organizations hollaback and asian americans advancing justice that are teaming up on a bystander intervention to stop anti asian american harassment and xenophobia workshop. and the links for that are available from this article as well. The third thing they mentioned is starting and continuing conversation, we talked about this a little bit in our interview too, but having conversations with your coworkers, your friends, your family, especially if you are a white person, especially if you hold privilege in other ways and you're more able to safely have these conversations. kind of that when you see something, say something mentality, but it also talks about reaching out to friends and family who are asian american offering support. to me, I think that more so looks how you show up every day. obviously reached out to folks, but think about if this is the first moment in a while, you've got to check in with that person, how else you might be devaluing them in your life and how that may be playing into your own issues around racism, etcetera. Just keep that in mind. you know, you don't want these to be empty, empty gestures of support to people. really reflect on how you can show up for these folks in everyday life. The fourth, that thing that they mentioned in this article is following api organizations on social media. and they list a variety of those here as well. Fifth they mentioned is starting an anti racist book club and they give some reading recommendations here as well. And then the sixth is shopping brands that actively supported the api community, including ones that are donating profits and proceeds to stopping a ap I hate right now. And so those resources all going to be available through this article plus some more in the description. and so I appreciate you all taking the time to listen to this conversation, especially to hear everything Morgan Hurd has to say. and we will see you next week to talk about nationals in the meantime please enjoy our interview with

spk_2: Morgan Hurd

spk_3: truly stick it is the only good gymnastics movie. It's the only one that attempts to actually gymnastics

spk_0: correct. It's not just this, it's not even just the plot line, it's it's the acting these movies just don't even have a good acting, you

spk_1: know, here's the thing about stick it, we watched it. Mhm. For an episode and that is the gayest movie I have ever

spk_0: seen. Yes, for sure. It's really it's absolutely

spk_1: I know it was everyone's gay awakening I was just like, oh I get it now. But you know that she's she's gay, her her dude friends are gay. The whole thing is about the fact that she's gay and I was like

spk_3: oh my God, literally I love it so much. There's

spk_0: something going on here.

spk_3: Also Jeff Bridges is in

spk_4: that movie and Jeff Bridges.

spk_0: Yeah, that's just so funny. That's that's so random.

spk_1: Okay, so we talked about it a little bit mentioned. You're going to the rally. and that's why we wanted to have you on right now. Um, was to kind of continue that conversation. and also because you're our favorite

spk_0: person, well this is my favorite podcast.

spk_3: I'm going to take that and put it on my tombstone. Mm

spk_1: hmm. We should make a shirt that just says this is my favorite podcast,

spk_0: fully endorse that. And

spk_1: you can, you are, do we know for sure that taking money wouldn't screw up your eligibility now for florida? I

spk_0: have no idea or

spk_3: we can donate it to a charity of your choice.

spk_0: We

spk_3: have also done.

spk_1: We have done that.

spk_0: Yeah.

spk_1: Cool. Alright. Well, so that was the coolest thing I've ever seen a gymnast. Do you ever so thanks for doing that. How did that happen?

spk_0: So a few weeks ago I have because of the adoption group that I'm in. I know a bunch of people like, you know, kind of all over the states that are asian adoptees and actually have a pretty good friend in Philly and he, he's one of the most well connected people I've ever met. I swear to God he knows absolutely everyone somehow. So he posted on his story about this rally in columbus columbus park, right in chinatown and it was in new york because he knew one of the organizers through clubhouse. and I was like, oh that's kind of seems interesting, I haven't seen many rallies or protests or anything in my general area, so I was like, yeah, I really want to, I think I really want to go to this. So I already decided I wanted to go to this and it was, it was a spectacular rally, one with energy I've literally never seen before at any rally or protest or anything. The speakers were absolutely amazing. Andrew Yang showed up, that was and then it's I had tagged the organizers in it because I found out who they were in my post, thanking them for like, you know, organizing the whole thing. and then last friday morning I woke up to a DM from one of the organizers, organizers are Oliver Press and Jack lang and Jack had DM me, he was like, hi do you want to speak at the rally on sunday? Because it was an emergency rally in light of the events of the elderly asian woman being, being in the security, doing nothing and I was like, I was like, oh I looked at it and immediately started shaking because I hate public speaking. It gives me immense anxiety, but I was like, you know what, I need this, I was sure I'll do it, yeah, sure why not. And that's just kind of how that came all about. So I got the D. M. Friday. I was speaking sunday.

spk_1: Whoa. I also would not have guessed he would that.

spk_0: Oh my god no I get I get terrible anxiety over public speaking and not only that but I haven't even written a speech in four years. I was trying to do my outline during my break at the gym and I was literally just rolling around the ground and I was I don't know how to do this, I don't know how to write anymore. my brain physically moves too fast to get words onto paper because it skips over unnecessary words when I read so I don't know how to write anymore. But Talia was there and she was holding my hand before I was gonna go and she's I can feel you trembling right now. I was because I I was I thought I was gonna pass out maybe five times when I was there before I was going to speak, I had to keep drinking water because I was getting such bad vertigo, I was literally trembling but then I got up there and I outside. Yeah.

spk_1: Yeah it was kind of I felt that energy that you as soon as you knew that mike was working there was a whole different energy that just kind of came over you

spk_0: right? I practice I practiced so many times obviously in the day that I had written it because I wouldn't memorize it. Practice in my room. I practiced without looking at my phone obviously while driving up and I had the whole thing memorized and my tone was just completely different from it was just a switch just flipped when I got there. I don't think I ever thought I could sound so out there and with so much passion and even I showed it to my pt and he was like, I've never heard you speak with so much conviction before. I was like, I mean I never had the need to I didn't even know I could do that myself.

spk_3: It was incredibly moving. you watched it all together actually having dr yeah yeah with dr sam because we were doing a regionals recap and I was no, no no we're gonna watch it right now. And I was okay, I've only seen parts and it was just completely silent. It was incredibly moving. There are a couple of parts where I got a little theory. not only because of what you were saying but also I was feeling really proud

spk_4: of you.

spk_3: I was just that's morrigan you know,

spk_4: I

spk_3: know her

spk_4: kind of um

spk_3: I can I just say that the one thing that really resonated with me that you said it was when you were talking about allies. stop just being allies and start being accomplices. that literally has that has stuck with me. I've been thinking about this all week.

spk_0: Yeah, I mean that's something that I had heard at the original rally that I went to and I yes, I I thought about it but I had never been able to put it in words in that sense. And then I heard it and I was yes, that's exactly the point. And that's not just for this movie but literally everything you can't just be an ally. You can't just support your friends who may be asian, maybe black, maybe gay or whatever that you need to actively support the community that they're part of. it was kind of how I was saying around the time of the election as well. you can't say you love someone that is black or asian or part of the minority or LGBTQ+ and then vote against them. Mm hmm It just contradicts your love for them.

spk_3: You talked about having hard conversations with people and being willing to have those conversations and yeah, they are hard and yes. Do they make family gatherings very uncomfortable? Well, I don't care personally. I am willing to be and I'll tell you exactly why. But I, I I really liked that. But I think with social media and everything. you mentioned again it's not just posting an infographic on your instagram story and I think that there's this weird balance of people are like, okay, I need to make sure I do this. But I also, I think some people just do it because they're like, oh, I need to make sure it looks I support this, whether I do or not.

spk_0: I feel that's how I really got involved to last year with. and everything to obviously that was something that I supported for in the long run. But I was I was posting a bunch to my story but I was like, this just isn't doing enough. I tried, I was trying to sign as many positions as I possibly could that I could find. But then I was like, no, I need to be doing more. And that's when I kind of really push myself to step out of my comfort zone and start attending rallies and protests and everything.

spk_3: And my follow up to that was going to be was I was thinking about my own social media presence, which isn't super huge. Um, but sometimes I'm like, oh, well I shouldn't really say anything and I'm like, no, you know what, I can say something. But I can also say something by amplifying the voices of other people and I think that's what I really had to I'm like, it's okay just because I'm like, I don't want to take away like, you know, I think sometimes, especially in the world of being an ally. people are try and invade conversations, but you do, it's that weird thing. You know, you're an ally. You do still have to try and amplify those voices. Just liking a post isn't helpful. you can't take yourself completely out of the picture. You just have to be on the supporting part of the picture,

spk_0: right? And not and not only that, but they'll post something that because everyone else if you notice a lot of times one certain infographic will go around or one kind of slide will go around. But then okay, that's great if you're providing that resource. But make sure that you are also educated on that. there have been I know one instagram pages so you want to talk about, you know, that's what it's called. And then there could be the history of blah blah blah and people could see you'll share that. But then make sure you're reading it to make sure you're not just sharing it to share it. it's great that you're providing that research for all your followers and make sure that you yourself are educated on it as well and you're not being a hypocrite. Yeah. And

spk_3: learning and learning is a continual process, you can't be I took one class in college or I went to one workshop or I listened to one speech, it's a continual process that, right? And I think that some people just want to be like, oh, but I read these five articles and now I know everything and I'm like, no, that no,

spk_1: because it's always changing too, right? Like,

spk_0: the new things are always coming into the light and everything. Yeah,

spk_1: we we could have absolutely had a conversation that focused on your experiences around race in gymnastics a year ago and it absolutely would have been a different conversation and it's not that it wasn't an issue before, but it was like, they're like, things have changed in the last year in a really, really negative way. And if you if you could have done a two month training, you could have gone and studied abroad somewhere three years ago and the context can be totally different now for that issue. unless you're living in that experience, you don't know enough,

spk_3: right? And also the idea that like, people are still going to like, you have to be aware that I say you as in like, I'm generally, I mean allies, you're going to mess up and you have to be willing to own that you mess up and learn about it and move on and move forward.

spk_0: And there's also no harm in saying that in admitting that you are uneducated, but that there's no harm in that I myself I'm very uneducated but I am also actively trying to educate myself further and don't try to speak on a matter that you're not educated on it and just kind of go with the flow, just I'm not educated enough to have this talk, but I'll come back to you when I am.

spk_3: Mhm Absolutely. I just think that sometimes people are like, oh I got enough education about something, I can never do anything wrong and I'm no that's not, that's literally not true.

spk_1: Okay, so I had to edit here but we started talking to morgan about how we've seen a lot of asian american representation in usa gymnastics in the last few years but not necessarily any conversations about what those folks experiences are as asian americans in the sport. So that's what I'm organiz commenting on here.

spk_0: Yeah, that's not a very large conversation. I feel the the way that I grew up at least even through at my gym and even through developmental campsites, routine it's because it's been a very diverse field in my opinion. I mean even though okay, okay, when I went to Pan am's how many people on that team? Four out of five of that, those people were asian, I mean so I've grown up in a very, I've been very grateful to grow up in a very diverse kind of culture

spk_1: and also people who we know in in my hope is that you've been generally lucky in this category in this way, but there are a lot of people in the sport who have worked really hard to make sure that gender norms continue and that sexuality norms continue and those people also tend to be racist in my experience and so I think you're totally right, all of a sudden I think it was all of a sudden there was a ton of asian tourists and everyone was like, well there's a bunch of you, so it must be great and maybe it is, but but

spk_3: also maybe it's not.

spk_1: Yeah, I mean what has it been for you being chinese american and an adoptee and a gymnast in the US,

spk_0: I feel based on my experience it's very different than what another asian americans personal experience would be because I grew up with a white family, I didn't have a traditional asian upbringing air quotes I I know friends of mine that have, you know asian parents, they would their food would get made fun of at school because it smelled and stuff that and their parents didn't speak the best english and just and they had like, you know, the face, the basic standard, different standards, so I've had a very different kind of experience, I would say because mine would be more based off of my looks and the fact that I'm not from here versus the way I act and the way that I was brought up,

spk_1: that is an interesting distinction for sure.

spk_4: Which

spk_0: which also, you know, puts into the whole identity crisis and I actually part, which was like, am I actually a part of that community because I didn't grow up all the other asian americans, did you know, kind of type thing?

spk_1: Yeah. you figured that out though, how did that, how did you get there?

spk_0: I mean ah I just really felt two that I wanted to be a representative, not so represented, but a representative for the adoptive community because talking with other asian adoptees, they feel the same way I do, they struggle with identity and if they really belong in that kind of community or not. And I was at the rally, a few people came up to me afterwards, I was like, hey, it was great to see you up there. I loved your speech. I'm an asian adopted as well, two or 3 people count through me that and that just shows I am probably giving voice to that as well.

spk_1: Yeah, okay, so here's the thing, how comfortably you're talking about slash how familiar with are you the way that you being an adoptee has been talked about by commentators, oh

spk_0: I'm well aware, okay because I want to talk about it, think about it and it's hilarious, like

spk_3: the US has the US commentators have a really weird way of talking about adoption in general because I'm sure you're aware of how they talked about Simone at the olympics and I'm just and they kept calling Simone's parents or grandparents, I'm they're not her grandparents, they're

spk_4: her parents

spk_3: Oh and so then with the conversation surrounding you, I'm sitting there watching the commentary that we heard is incredibly offensive and I'm just sitting there and I'm there is no one telling them how incredibly screwed up it is that they're literally talking about you in this very narrow way and they're yeah, china must regret that you're she's not an object, you are not an object. And also yes, yes, we knew that tiny Morgan Hurd was

spk_4: going to be this great gymnast when she was a tiny bit know what is

spk_0: wrong with people, right, I mean when I was younger, I didn't really think much of it, I was oh that's funny because I'm from china okay, but and you know, went right over my head but then having conversations more with heath and stuff, I was this this sounds a little wrong. it does make it sound, it's not I'm not an object that you're trading with someone for another good and now you wish you didn't trade me. It's just like, I don't even know how to describe it, but it's not right, right?

spk_3: And it's not even if this wouldn't happen, but it's not even like, you know, you're a gymnast who competed for one country and then competed for another.

spk_0: Exactly. Used. Exactly. It's

spk_4: not you ever used for

spk_0: china and then came here because some sh it happened or something that and

spk_4: our house

spk_3: countries and we're going to have that's not how that works. Like

spk_1: also how how dare anyone be just make any kind of comment about anyone in china implying they made a fully independent decision about anything having to do with the birth of their Children,

spk_0: right? And it was also around that time of the one child policy. So because that complains a factor, I mean we don't know, you know, we don't know anything about me but nobody, we're not betting on horses here, people. And also nobody asked,

spk_1: nobody asked for that intergenerational trauma to come into this gymnastic.

spk_4: Exactly yet.

spk_3: No one wanted to bring up that anything about adoption when we still had worlds in Doha because Doha has issues, well no Doha

spk_4: has issues

spk_0: with interracial

spk_3: adoption and you were a minor,

spk_1: right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We talked with them. We're like

spk_0: me and heath are a little dicey here aren't we?

spk_1: And you also I think it was

spk_0: oh yeah I mean I personally don't think we

spk_3: ever should have had worlds in Doha. I mean they people talked about people were okay so Doha you know actively the country I mean does not the country Qatar they don't recognize interracial adoption and so people had conversations about you, they were what if morgan's gets hurt and like

spk_0: and I thought about this too, I mean there

spk_3: were conversations about you'll but you'll have you'll was over 18 so

spk_0: yeah. Yeah no I definitely thought about this too. I mean me and him were talking about it before we had went were wow both of us could just

spk_3: yeah sorry not to bring up something super heavy but you know we're on the subway

spk_1: regardless of how commentators may or may not have talked about you in the past. What are some of some tips that you would give to people who are commentating who say a network or a producer or a colleague has given them a piece of paper that says Morgan Hurd chinese american adoptee what are a couple of things that you would tell them to do or not to do.

spk_0: I'd say more so just stick to the basic facts, you don't need to really stray from the path just say chinese adoptee, you can say the age I was adopted at more factual things versus kind of spinning into your own words because I do think it's important to kind of state that kind of stuff to show the representation because I think the representation is just such an important thing, but you don't need to kind of put your own spin on things, make it sound interesting because it's already interesting. I mean, you know but you don't need to dive into the whole backstory. That's not what the broadcast is necessarily for the broadcast is for gymnastics, show my gymnastics, you state some facts about me, show my gymnastics move on. I think that's all it needs to be. you don't need to really straight just to see Morgan Hurd adopted from china At the age of 11 months to Sherry heard and then you can move on

spk_3: and then don't talk during your floor routine and interrupt it because

spk_0: you and let you listen to the music,

spk_3: let me just sit in this Morgan Hurd floor, routine experience because

spk_4: that is an experience is an experience,

spk_3: especially for

spk_0: someone me. I build off of the music and I try to tell some type of story or I tried to get into like, you know an aesthetic with my dancing and the music altogether and killed when someone talks, you got to hear the music to really

spk_3: evolution, you know, people talk about Brooklyn Brooklyn moors and don't talk during Brooklyn's floor. Don't talk during the Morgan Hurd floor, It is a religious experience for many people. I'm just saying your floor is beautiful and it will always be beautiful. I don't care if you literally only did one tumbling pass whatever

spk_1: I wish I could. That's the correct reaction to just hearing Brooklyn Marz name. I

spk_3: know your face was just like, yes,

spk_4: I just, I

spk_0: love her routine Oh my gosh brings me so much joy

spk_4: to, sorry, I just

spk_3: both of you competing in NCAA with your floor at the same time and I just, oh my God, I can't

spk_1: against each other at

spk_0: nationals Nationals. Oh my God. Well I'm going to have some fun for teens because I already have some music that I know I won't lined up there from Yeah, yeah, I can't wait.

spk_3: Oh my gosh,

spk_1: I'm excited and they don't have to just tell you what your floor routine is going to be like, we decided to do with your bars. Yeah, I think I'm glad that you said you do want them to mention it because I was going to be the next question is like, would you rather people mention you being adopted or not because I think yeah, as long as they're not being weird about it. Yeah, that's the best way to

spk_0: phrase it. You don't need to, you don't need to add to it.

spk_1: Whatever you add to it is probably going to be bad

spk_4: in europe with

spk_3: your experience.

spk_4: Do you think

spk_3: people just get in your experience, do you think that people are just really weird about adoption in general or just?

spk_0: Okay. The problem is a lot it's a lot when someone tells you their trauma, some people just are how how much do I ask? Mm hmm. And it's just weird in that sense because then you can you can literally see their brain work and be what should I ask? What? you know what, you already know what's gonna come out of the mouth because that's what comes out of everyone's mouth anyways. But they do I ask if I ask, you can literally see the functions working in their brain because of it. But I guess some people get kind of weird about it. I don't know because I feel now I barely have to explain to anyone that I am adopted because a lot of people just know

spk_1: that probably is helpful.

spk_0: Yeah. And in new people that I meet, I just I'll casually bring it up or whatever and they're wait what? And then that's the end of that though. It's not anything weird. I think my generation. It's not weird. It's no no one really cares. Not gonna lie. No one really cares that I'm adopted. that's not gonna change anything. I think it's more of an older generation thing that they're like, oh my God, way that kind of thing.

spk_3: I still hear kids make weird comments though. students and I'm just always like, I always look at them and I'm why is being adopted a bad thing? And they're like, yeah,

spk_4: you do

spk_0: also do hear the jokes I've heard people tell there's something, I'm just gonna tell them that they're adopted or it's a joke and I'm like, no, it's yeah,

spk_1: I never, I don't think I ever thought about that till just now where people jokingly be like, oh man, tell them they're adopted and like,

spk_0: and then the kids and then the kids start crying right and they get so upset and that's my own and that's my only beef with the whole thing too. It's this the stigma around because adopted kids were okay yeah, we're adopted. I'm gonna cry. I don't think any adopted kid that I mean that I know of anyways has ever actually cried that they're adopted. But then because even when you tell really little kids as a as a joke they cry. But I feel I obviously I didn't cry when I was told I was, I was bi I was like, okay, my mom was you have any questions. I was like, no, I mean that just might be me,

spk_1: would you, if you sht called and they were like, hey, do you want to be an athlete rep or any of those things, do you think you'd ever do it?

spk_0: See part of me is like, I'd love to be and help to be a voice for the athletes and someone hopefully that they could trust. Um, but at the same time when I'm done gymnastics, I kind of want to get away from gymnastics. I don't necessarily like, yeah, I'll contribute to, I'll get back, contribute to the sport in some little ways. Maybe, you know, like, you know, stuff this and maybe commentator, I don't know, maybe not kind of being on camera that. Um, but like, little things that, but I don't want it to be my whole personality, I want to be able to branch out. gymnastics has been my whole personality since I was two 17 years now. I want to because I'm a person, I always tell people once I'm done gymnastics, you won't see me again. I will be traveling the world. I already have multiple plans at this point. Hopefully I have the funds for them. I will be getting a job where I can freely travel and I think that will be a lot more flexible now because everyone knows how to zoom and stuff that, so I will be all over the world, I will come home for holidays and stuff that, but I don't see myself as being gymnastics my entire life being so insanely, that is

spk_3: such a healthy gross, not that it's

spk_0: bad, not that it's bad, but it's just, it's it's not my cup, it's it's not my cup,

spk_3: you shouldn't feel for me personally,

spk_0: right? Because all, like, especially in more recent years, think about what I wanna do, I'm like, wow, all I know is gymnastics and that almost feels embarrassing to me, I know nothing about the real world because this has been my whole world and it's this past year, you know, it's stepping out of my comfort zone and everything and I'm like, I want to continue doing that because that's how you grow as a person. Mhm and I don't want to stay the same person my whole life, that's not how it should be, keep the same aspects, but don't be the same exact person.

spk_1: Yeah, I remember when we were when it was all around came out and all of a sudden you had this haircut or this hair situation and you were just like, I figured a lot of stuff out, I was just like, okay, new era of Morgan Hurd personal development time,

spk_0: Oh no, for sure, I'm like, I feel I'm a completely different person than I was a year and a half ago even even my friends at the gym and heath and a lot of my other friends can really see that I used to be a person that would stay home all the time. I mean I still am, I still very much jam, I still hang out with 1 to 2 people in Delaware, but that was just like, that's what I really wanted to do is I just wanted to stay home, I didn't want to go anywhere and I'm like, yeah, I want to go somewhere and not only that, but I would never do things by myself. I I would, you told me a year and a half ago, I would be going to New york city by myself. I've been that's funny. There's no way I'm doing that. Not only that, but speaking in front of Over 500 people. Oh, by the way, I also found out Rihanna was

spk_1: there, I forgot to mention earlier and Rihanna

spk_0: Rihanna was there, definitely saw my speech because listen, that video of, I don't know if you saw the video of the guy that she was giving the guy her instagram. I know exactly where that guy was standing. That's I know where he was Rihanna knows my name, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I had to put it out there. Uh

spk_1: yeah, no, I meant to ask about it. That's what I was like. So Rihanna was there. So Rihanna was

spk_0: there okay, that's That's cool. It's funny because I went out to dinner with Oliver, one of the organizers and his friends afterwards and he was talking about yeah, this one wasn't as big as number in numbers because the last one that they organized had 10,000 people coming in and out Roughly. And this one maybe had 5-600 but it was also put together super last minute. It was put together within a week. There's also more in the city and then the last one was in chinatown and so obviously some people were a little more nervous to go out and then he found that out and he was like, wow! Well that that that just makes up for the numbers, you know, it's Rihanna.

spk_1: Rihanna counts as 9500 people.

spk_0: I saw that I was like, there's no way that's fake. that's so fake. And then I looked more at the story. I was

spk_1: that's real. That's Brianna was there.

spk_0: There's no way I know hello.

spk_1: I know, I was like, I don't want to make it about that but no

spk_0: but okay, but that's that's kind of great, she's out there, She's out there in the streets, you know, supporting

spk_1: listen, as far as I'm concerned you are to Rihanna what Marx eta is to Janet Jackson, but you're going to get face time any day.

spk_0: I don't think that far. But you know what a good dream.

spk_1: We'll see. Who knows? Who knows. We're gonna put it in the universe. So today we just took so in case you have to cut this weird, we just took a whole break and had a conversation. That was great. But so today I posted, you know, people are posting like, what gymnasts do I look or what gymnast do I remind you of?

spk_0: Someone said

spk_1: you someone's glasses? Yes, because we have glasses.

spk_0: It's the glasses were just a whole, we're just a whole different race and gender, but it's the glasses for sure. It's

spk_3: definitely the glasses. I was that is a choice that someone made

spk_1: specifically said, it doesn't have to be a physical resemblance thing.

spk_3: So, you know, last time you were here, we talked about your activism and obviously this time you've been here, we've talked a lot about your activism. And do you still worry that your activism could negatively impact your chances at being selected for the olympic team and if yes, what would need to change for this to be a no and if no, what has changed. But I think that's I think it's an important question to ask to be honest because I've been there

spk_0: right? Yeah, I definitely thought about it a lot. Um, I feel in the beginning when I was starting to speak out more and stuff, I definitely would second guess it so hard before I would really post absolutely anything because of that and now I just, I feel I'm not really second guessing it anymore. I will just, I said, I decided to do this speech on this was more than just attending a rally. This was me literally speaking at when I decided to do that on a whim and with no second thoughts and I posted it with literally no second thoughts, I was like, I need to like, get this up, like, I want to get this out there and but I still do think about it if that it could possibly affect my chances, but at the same time I said this to my friends, to that, like, I'm a person first. I mean in the second gymnastics won't matter if something, what happened to me, I think I would, if I was the next face on the news, gymnastics wouldn't matter. So that's why I feel it's really important to just kind of push those thoughts aside and to just do this because this is so much bigger, gymnastics will eventually end, but I am who I am for the rest of my life.

spk_1: Yeah, you shouldn't be afraid of public speaking because you you've got all the stuff

spk_3: you do. I also think that because everything is so visible, I obviously there's always a chance that things that we say could affect things. but I, I think it would be like, people would say something, they're like, what? So what are you going to not put morgan somewhere because

spk_0: you know, Morgan Hurd definitely. I mean, I feel obviously I wouldn't play, I would never in a million years play that card like, oh, they didn't pick me because I spoke out or something or something that note. I will critically, I I'm my biggest critic. Everyone, a lot of people told me I and my biggest critic, I think I dislike myself the most out of anyone ever could. but so unless I truly believe that they just made the decision because that I would never put, I would never in a million years play that card that they didn't pick me because of this. I feel the only time I could ever, I would ever truly think to play that card is if I had gotten second at trials and they did not put me on the team. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, I think that's that's the only scenario where I would ever even think that far. Yeah,

spk_1: it was egregious or if like, I think, I think like, or if somebody was straight up like, so we didn't pick you because you're a liability because you spoke up like, right.

spk_0: Exactly. But then, but then you put them on blast and then you can deal with the media and that's my whole thing as well, like, you can't do that because in the day and age that we are social media is very prevalent and you will be put on blast for it.

spk_1: Yeah. You've got a huge community people that like, got your back. I think you're right. That like, they couldn't really get away with that at this point. Like, in a way that was open. and it very much is like, I think that more happening the margins of if, which is like, I think we said last time, it's kind of where you've been in the selection process for a lot of it is in people's cups, not ours, but like, other people

spk_0: I'm okay with that. I'm okay with being the underdog. I less pressure on me.

spk_1: I hope that they would see you speaking out and being a really, really good role model for people right now as

spk_0: opposed. Yeah. I actually, they have been receiving it very well. I got an email from, but I got an email asking if they could use some of my images to post them to their story from this recent protest and they did that. And then someone from Usa g actually texted me and was like, oh, your speech was really good. Good.

spk_3: That makes me feel good. Yeah, because I

spk_1: would never know

spk_3: how many years ago it would have been like,

spk_0: oh yeah,

spk_1: absolutely Unheard of. So

spk_3: absolutely unheard of, you know,

spk_0: right?

spk_1: But if they, I think we all benefit if they're willing to listen to whether it's me pointing out a bad sentence in a training or us talking about commentary stuff that needs to change or like, abuse stuff that happens. Like, I think we just like, we have to be in a place now where we're just willing to hear that stuff and then make the changes and be actually glad that people are doing this stuff right? You are great,

spk_3: You are great. we talked about this doing this episode and I was like, we should ask Morgan Hurd but like, is morgen too busy, Is that too much to ask morgan

spk_4: right now? Like,

spk_0: no, and I would always make time for you guys. Always,

spk_3: I was like, I was genuinely I was more gonads to be at the top of our list, but also like, you know, it's a really, it's an intense time for you to and also, you know, emotional labor and that kind of thing. So

spk_1: yeah, yeah, thanks for going through the emotional journey of this conversation with us.

spk_0: No. Yeah, I mean I'm, I'm chilling. I'm thoroughly enjoying myself. I usually don't enjoy myself during interviews and stuff and this is literally the one that I really do,

spk_1: The other t shirt. That's

spk_3: the other t shirt. The other thing they're putting on the other side of my grave. Yeah.

spk_1: Thank you for being

spk_3: here. Thank you so much for coming back. Yeah.

spk_0: Thank you for having me and giving me, I'm

spk_1: sure, I'm sure we'll talk to you plenty more times. Oh

spk_0: yeah.

