Episode 44: Making MAG History with Connor McCool and Anna

Connor: There's so many queer members on the Gymternet and they're our biggest fan base and really the least we could do is just sit there, like hey we support you to! Thanks for supporting us, we support you back

*****

[Intro Music: Din Daa Daa (Dub), Song by George Kranz]
Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe

*****

Blake: Hello and welcome to Half In Half Out, the only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast. I'm Blake, you'll hear from Kino in a bit. We're bringing you this kind of mini-episode so we can share with you our conversation with Connor McCool and our friend Anna about the Illinois MAG pride meet, which happened a couple of weeks ago and was the first pride meet for any college MAG team that we know of. Before that I want to give you some updates because we haven't really gotten to talk about the last couple of weeks. LIU had their pride meet this past week, we always look forward to that because we know we get to work with Randy and those folks a little bit every year to make that happen.

We also had the announcement of Fisk University, which will have the first HBCU gymnastics team, and we're super excited for that to finally be happening. This is absolutely a product of the Brown Girls Do Gymnastics team, this was absolutely a partnership with them and we are so unbelievably proud of them and the work they continue to do, and we really encourage you all to support them as much as you can.

Some general updates after week 5: Michigan had 4 of the top 8 scores from the season, they are just absolutely killing the game. Oklahoma had 3, Florida, LSU, and Minnesota each had one from the top eight scores. That week we also saw 34 routines get at least one 10, so it has been a weird season with scoring to say the least. It's obviously always weird, but we are seeing the comeback of the 10 in some really big ways, while simultaneously having conversations about should WAG still be in the 10.0 system when you have athletes like Jade Carey who are capable of significantly more difficulty (and some other athletes in the field), what do we do with that? And so I think that's going to be an interesting conversation as we move forward.

After week 6 we got confirmation that NQS will be run the traditional way using the regular number of scores. The thanks to Spencer from the Balanced Beam Situation for pointing that change out, for calculating folks NQS, and he has a really helpful chart of what the scores are, the scores people are currently counting and whether or not they have opportunities to replace those scores, which I really appreciate. So with NQS, we have:

1. Michigan
2. Florida
3. Oklahoma
4. Utah
5. LSU
6. Auburn
7. Alabama
8. Minnesota

I wanted to read the top eight, because we've got eight teams in theory that advanced to the finals, and we know that regionals aren't necessarily evenly distributed, so we can't really say that if we had regionals today, these would be the eight teams that advance, but those are definitely eight teams to be on the lookout for. And in particular, it's really cool to see Auburn ranked so high and it's really cool to see Minnesota ranked so high. Number nine is Cal and number 10 is Kentucky. So those are your teams that are kind of right on that cusp, and also not necessarily teams that we always would have thought to place there. So I'm very excited to see some of the power shifting away from the handful of teams that have been dominant for a really long time. We're starting to see some new names in this top eight in general, folks are really excited about Auburn and Minnesota in particular, and so I'm very excited to see how the rest of the season plays out for them. And I really hope that we see both of those teams shining in the postseason as much as they are shining right now.

Another big piece of gym news is just the extent of injuries we've had this year. In the last couple of weeks, we've seen some more folks go out with achilles and with knee injuries. Shift Movement Science is doing a great job talking about the need for more research with achilles tears, in particular for gymnasts, where the rates are just so high, and then it doesn't seem to be solely based on the single incidents where that is happening but rather that the impact of years and years of landings is kind of catching up to people. Very curious as to how COVID times and changes in preparation could be impacting the amount that we're seeing this year. But it's really scary, we're hoping that everyone stays safe. You know no score is worth the risk in any situation and so hopefully folks are making the decisions that are safe for them and are in team environments where they're able to do that and not feel pressured to do things that might be eventually harmful for them.

So the meets that we have coming up this weekend. Friday we have Florida at Kentucky, Saturday we have a UW Eau Claire home meet quad. We've got Auburn at Georgia, Saturday and Sunday we've got Elevate the Stage Toledo. I was thinking about going, but I'm not going to be able to. That's going to have most of your teams from the Michigan/Illinois/Indiana/Ohio area are going to be there. Sunday we also have UNC at NC State, this week is a little weird. We've got a lot of early in the week meets. So Monday we've got Arkansas and LSU at Missouri, as well as UCLA at Arizona State. Tuesday, we have Arizona at Cal and then just a few days later Arizona is going to have a home meet, so that Friday, it's gonna be Utah at Arizona and you'll get to hear a little bit more about that meet in our next episode.

Our next episode is going to be our interview with Sirena Linton from Arizona. We left that interview, both just kind of with our jaws on the ground to be honest. We feel just so honored that Sirena took the time to share her journey with us, and it's going to be a really impactful episode we think. We can't wait for you to hear it. That is going to come out next week on Monday or Tuesday is the plan, so be on the lookout for that. We've been working on some other interviews as well, that's why we haven't really been able to focus as much on providing you the gym coverage in the last couple of weeks. We have been working on a handful of interviews, including Sirena's, we're really excited to get those out to you. We have been watching meets, so we will continue to provide you as much coverage as we can of the NCAA season while we keep working on some of these interviews that we have coming up for you soon.

 So with that we're gonna transition into our conversation with Connor McCool from Illinois' MAG team as well as Anna, also known as @KalysBars on Twitter, who is a friend of the podcast and who was at the meet. You might hear some background noise especially when Connor's talking. We're so lucky that we got to talk to him, he hopped out of practice and was in the weight room recording with us. We really appreciate him for taking the time out. We really appreciate his coaches for allowing him to take a few minutes out to talk to us. But if you hear some background noise that's that's what's going on. And without further ado please enjoy this conversation with Connor and Anna. It was really awesome, and hopefully we'll get to talk to both of them more in depth another time because they were really great. So I hope you enjoy. Have a good week everyone and we'll see you next week for our interview with Sirena Linton.

 *****

Blake: So welcome Connor, welcome Anna. It's good to have both of you and I will talk to you in a second. But thanks for taking a break from practice to come talk to us Connor, we appreciate it.

Connor: absolutely

Blake: Okay, so you are on the Illinois men's team, who has just had the first ever men's gymnastics Pride meet, and we're super excited about it. How was that day for you?

Connor: That was really awesome. It's a pretty cool event. I'm really glad we were able to partner with the LGBT Resource Center on campus, the department of Intercollegiate Athletics partner with them and they had a bunch of resources and flags. In men's gymnastics, we have the green stick flag for when you stick a landing for the tenth bonus, we were able to replace those with mini pride flags, which is cool, a nice touch. And yeah, I thought it was just a really fun day, was actually kind of blown away with the messages I got after the meet and just the stuff that I saw on twitter, I honestly didn't really think that our little gymnastics meet would have the impact it did. It is really heartwarming and awesome. It was just a great event. I'm really glad we did it and we're able to, you know, make that history.

Blake: Seriously. Are you already crying Kino?

Kino: A little bit.

Blake: Well it's such a huge deal. A lot of the first conversations that we had off the record with people, before we even were really having a lot of on-the-podcast conversations, were just with people telling us about how terrible it was for them in men's. For us to be 2-3 years out from those conversations and to know that that's still the environment for a lot of people and then to see y'all do this. It really, it really was a huge deal.

Connor: Yeah, I think it was really important that we did, just because we know there's so many queer members of the Gymternet and they're our biggest fan base, and really the least we could do is just sit there like, hey, we support you too, thanks for supporting us, we support you back. It's just the absolute least we could do. And I'm really, really glad we had a coaching staff and an administration that supported it and were able to facilitate getting it done.

Blake: Yeah, I was just gonna ask how did that whole idea come about, how did you guys make it happen?

Connor: Yeah, so I had obviously been aware that I've never really seen one happen. So it was something I was gonna plan to bring up with our coaches. I really, I anticipated for next year because I thought any of the plans for this year would probably be done. But just a week and a half before they were like, hey, just to let you know that this is, we're gonna do a pride night with Illini inclusion and we're gonna have some patches. So it was all through the coaches, we didn't really have to do a whole lot, I had no idea that was gonna happen. It was something I wanted to do and I was gonna bring up for next season because I thought everything for this year was already planned. So it was a surprise to most of us 10 days out when they let us know. But yeah.

Kino: I can't get over the fact that they let you replace the stick flag with the pride flag, why aren't we doing that in WAG? Why can't we get the out of bounds flag to be a pride flag? We don't have a fun stick flag.

Connor: We weren't really sure if it was allowed. I was talking to my sister who has a lot of flags so I had to bring her big pride flag and then she says "I have a bunch of mini ones" and I was thinking, I wonder if we could do this? I asked Justin, our head coach, and he's like "I think it'll be fine". There's probably a rule in there that says it has to be a green flag, but I just took the green flags off the desk and replaced them. Nobody said anything, so the judges just have them like normal and it was just what happened.

Kino: I love that so much. And also, if nobody wants to use the pride flag we'll just claim it's homophobic, I don't care.

Blake: Also it's the most MAG thing I've ever heard. It's just like we did it, and they used them.

Connor: I wasn't going to ask for permission, I was just like, hey, I'm gonna do this. He said okay and I just hid them behind the desk. I was like, nobody can find this

Kino: Skip permission, just ask for forgiveness later. We didn't know if was a rule

Connor: We're not actually sure it is one, we didn't check. Anyways, it's fine.

Kino: Yeah, I love it.

Blake: I love it. I love that it came from the coaches, and I'm glad that people were excited about it. Did you guys have to have any other conversations about it with people, or was everyone just kind of like, we got this?

Connor: Yeah, I think the vast majority of everybody that was competing that day was very, very super cool. I was actually so impressed and proud of the team. You know, we haven't had a whole lot of tests with it. Everyone on our team currently is just, you know, straight men. So there wasn't a whole lot of just tests that I've actually seen people with in daily life.

I didn't really know how everyone would react with it, but once they told us like, you know, it's pretty smooth sailing, nobody cared. People just came over and helped me put the flags there. It was just very easy passing out the flags. People were just into it, and I was super proud and impressed with the guys just like, all walks of life, you know, whatever, however they identify politically, whatever it is, people were just were like this is what we're doing and nobody really had any gripes about. It was pretty awesome. I was super, super pleased.

Kino: I love that

Blake: Me too

Kino: It just makes me happy. It's the first one and I'm glad it went well and I'm glad that it was something you wanted to bring up for next season and then it just happened. I love that. That somebody else, not necessarily someone from on the team, you know, it just, it happened

Connor: We don't do a whole lot of themed meets anyway. We used to do a military appreciation, but I don't think we've ever done a themed one since I've been here. The closest thing we do is we pair with the club meet, actually this one was paired with a little kid's club meet, so it's actually cool that we did it with a bigger crowd, so there's more people there, so it was fun. So it was kind of just that the coaches just decided to actually add one. Usually it's always just meets.

Blake: Yeah, in men's, a lot of y'all aren't really in it for the themes, which makes sense. I get it. Yeah, that was one of the first things I saw when it was happening, people were just immediately like, coming from these coaches it's not surprising, this totally makes sense. This is totally a thing they would do.

Connor: Oh yeah, we've got the coaching staff of dreams, you know, they're the best.

Blake: Oh, good.

Connor: Yeah, I think they foster a great environment for anybody to feel comfortable. We've had queer members in the past. We don't have any currently, but I hope just that they would agree that it's a great environment to kind of be whoever.

Blake: Yeah

Kino: I also think it's incredible that you're saying there's no queer members of the team.

Connor: Oh yeah, that we know of.

Kino: As far as you know, but there was still a pride meet. That is iconic and it shows you don't have to have a pride meet.

Connor: I think the best part was that it wasn't brought forward by a queer member of the team. It was just something we decided we should do.

Kino: That's fantastic.

Blake: Yeah, I think it does send a really good message for folks, especially to other MAG teams because I think there's so much concern, a lot of what we've been told about why the environment is often so homophobic is because there's the stereotype of being gay. People overcompensate and I think for a bunch of straight men to just be like, yeah, means a lot

Connor: That's one part, I think it's so big, it's just because we're talking about it upstairs, it's definitely a hard environment to come out in, because everyone is just so set on as a kid when it's such a big deal to be gay or whatever, because you're just trying to combat that stereotypes so hard to go so far in the other direction, is just a bunch of manly men.

So I think it's definitely just kind of like, knock back that stereotype or just knock back the environment we've created inadvertently. I think it's just important because obviously there's a large portion of actual athletes that are queer and then obviously the fan base as well, I think it's just, it's really important that we started. I hope we start some sort of wave that other teams follow suit, if not this year, next year, because there's been a lot of women's teams that have done it for a while. It's definitely important that we brought it over to MAG

Blake: Oh yeah, theres no way y'all are gonna be the only ones for very long. Especially to your point like, people seeing the reaction to it. I think people -

Kino: Yeah, people were so jazzed,

Blake: And it got people to pay attention to MAG, which is hard sometimes

Connor: There was really no downside at all. I didn't see a single negative comment.

Kino: What if this is the thing that increases MAG

Connor: That's what our coaches were saying. It was like, this is a big portion of our fan base. Why would we not cater to it? But you know -

Blake: I know and I think it's exactly like you said, to show them that we've got the Gymternet

Connor: The Gymternet is the only group of fans that will get up at three AM or whatever to watch the Olympics. The fact that it's the least, I was like, I'll hold this flag just to say we reciprocate the support.

Blake: Look at y'all!

Okay, so we're gonna let you get back to the training. Is there anything else that you wanted to say about the meet, or to our folks before you go?

Connor: I think we've just about covered it. It was just an awesome day. I'm glad we were able to do it and come out with a win that was important, it's been a good season so far.

Blake: Yes. A win for for gay rights. All right. Thank you. Thank you so much for taking the time, we appreciate it!

Blake: Awesome. I'm sure we'll talk to you again.

*****

Blake: You are one of our favorite people already. We haven't got to tell you this yet, but we always appreciate, anytime we ask for questions for stuff you've got us and you are wonderful on Twitter all the time, so we're very excited to actually get to talk to you

Kino: I was really excited when Blake said you were coming on.

Anna: Yes, thank you, you guys are my favorite.

Blake: So Anna, you were at the pride meet that we just talked to Connor about, you got to hear everything that he said, so you have an idea of what he got to cover and what he didn't, so what we haven't gotten to hear about is literally any of what it was like to be there and experience it.

We've heard a little bit about stuff that was up and visible, but talk us through what it was to be at the first ever MAG pride meet

Anna: I think Connor covered most of the details, I didn't know that they actually went and switched the little flags because there was so much going on. There were, I think six club teams there, so all events were going at the same time and there were a lot of people in the crowd, so it was kind of overwhelming since it was my first MAG meet and also first NCAA meet since 2019, so I mean it was really exciting to be there. I was walked in and then I saw Connor kind of wearing the flag on his shoulders and was just walking around in it, and I felt so touched by that.

Kino: That's so cute

Blake: And there were stickers and buttons, there was a lot of flags, and they were using the progressive pride flag

Anna: Yeah they had the progress pride flag

Kino: I love that, we haven't seen that yet, have we?

Blake: I think UCLA had a regular one and that one at one point. Did you feel this is a pride meet and everyone is on the same page and enjoying how gay this is, or was it like everyone got a sticker and now it's gonna be a regular meet? Do you know what I mean?

Anna: So I feel what kind of happened was they had the booths in the corner of the arena and they had the buttons and they had some stickers for diversity, equity, inclusion and some resources for queer [RSOs?] on campus. I already knew about those, so I didn't really get much information out of that.

Blake: Good for you for knowing that

Anna: Yeah and then they had the screen scoreboard by the floor Pride Day with a block 'I' and you know

Blake: I loved how much they did with the actual logo, there was a lot of rainbow, the logo-y stuff happening, which for me, this is just the thing that I'm nerdy about. So I used to be the LGBT coordinator from one of the University of Michigan satellite campuses. University of Michigan, like a a lot of really big schools, has a super, super, super tight grip on their branding. Michigan has taken it to a new extreme, which is that you cannot alter the block M in anyway,

You cannot, like you would have to get permission to add a rainbow. The rainbow can't touch it and you can't make the yellow rainbow.

[Note: I would kick myself so hard if I did not correct myself and call it maize instead of yellow]

But you can't put it on a rainbow background without special permission. It's only allowed to go on top of navy, black, gray or white unless you get special permission. So it's bonkers, and they have a whole booklet when you start working there about how to follow all the rules and the exact pantone color you have to use for everything. It's crazy. So it made me very excited to see rainbow 'I' (logo)

Kino: That does show some sort of buy-in from the rest of the university, because you do generally just have like, I remember in college, we were like, we want to make t shirts for this and they're like, well we have to slightly modify it because we can't put the university logo on it, we have to get permission and you don't wanna have to deal with that.

We're like, okay, so like, I just wanted to sell the shirt

Anna: So it's interesting you bring that up because I was actually looking at the graphic design rules for the block I logo. Apparently you're not supposed to alter the color, so I'm not sure like, who gave them permission to do that?

Kino: Well what's the president of the University going to do, say no rainbows? Like, it's really sending out a message that he doesn't want to send out.

Blake: Well University of Michigan Dearborn was, actually University of Michigan was fine with telling me that, so -

Kino: Yeah, but did you put it on then they told you not to?

Blake: Yeah

Kino: Oh. Oh ... well -

Blake: I put it over other colors and I got in trouble. So I was very excited to see it. And I'm just going to assume that everybody got all the permissions that they needed and that the university helped

Kino: Do they really want to backtrack on that?

Blake: But also like, I think that shows that that makes sense with like, the coaches being the ones who came up with the idea too. They know how to do all that stuff and you know how to do all that stuff, which is where it kinda helps when it just comes down. I love that they just got told they were doing it

Kino: Yes, I love that too. I really liked his point where he was like, I mean the Gymternet is the only group of people who wakes up at three AM to watch men's at the olympics,

Blake: If you've got them, you've got them

Kino: And that's the thing, what if this is the thing that saves MAG?

Anna: It could be, it got me to go to a MAG meet

Kino: It's the weird reverse where the women's sports is more popular, because that never happens right? You know, you have basketball and all that stuff. But it's it's the reverse in gymnastics and it's actually killing the other sport

Blake: I don't necessarily think that the way that MAG gets more popular is to replicate stuff that WAG is doing, except for this thing. This thing I'm like, do this thing, I like this.

How was it being at your first MAG meet?

Anna: Yeah, it was pretty crazy. I said I got a little bit overwhelmed because there's so much going on right between all the teams and then it being also a pride meet

Kino: I've never been to a MAG meet, we were supposed to go, but -

Anna: Yeah, before this the only MAG competition I was at was trials, and that was completely different. It was also shorter, this competition was three hours long.

Blake: Yes, they do. They do a lot of stuff.

Anna: Yeah, they did one team after another on the same event. It's very different than WAG

Kino: So they compete like, everyone does vault, then everybody dues p-bars, etc?

Anna: Yeah, so Illinois starts on an event and then the next person who goes was OSU and then Illinois and it flip-flops for five people, and then go on to the next event, the transitions were too minutes long. So it was really fast transition between the two, but it still took three hours

Blake: Wild. Yeah, because they, I think they only do one set of judges,

Anna: I mean there were judges there that day, because all the club teams were there

Blake: Yeah but they to have to be to level, especially because MAG does actually cause MAG code, which is open ended. So I think they have to be rated. That's what my friend Matt, who was on the Michigan men's team, said the score just has to be open ended, this is the problem.

Blake: How did it feel just being at a pride meet? Because weirdly enough we have not gotten to do that yet

Anna: Ever? That's so sad.

Kino: I know

Anna: Yeah, it felt very interesting. I had never done anything pride related previous to last semester, where I went to my first pride festival, so it felt very similar to that except a lot more straight people in the room

Blake: Did anybody seem weird or?

Anna: No, I didn't hear overhear any conversations with people who felt uncomfortable. Actually the people sitting behind me, they had a little girl in gymnastics and she was talking with her parents about doing MAG events and rings and I thought that was super cute

Blake: That's perfect. Is there anything else that you remember from the meet that you wanted people to hear about?

Anna: I think that pretty much covers everything. They do have our RSOs on campus for people who are asexual, trans people, those in STEM majors, they have a Queer Library Alliance and also women of pride, which is for everyone, not just cisgender women, oh and also a group for questioning people of color.

Blake: I love that. I'm putting a link to one of the description of one of their meetings in the chat so you can read it because nothing has ever been more Kino then this thing that you don't get to do because you're not a student at this school.

Kino: Can I read it? The Queer Library Alliance is a group for I school students to discuss LGBTQ issues in libraries and information science. Let's talk about people wanting to take queer books out of the library. Queer issues in libraries.

Anna: Oh yeah, that reminds me, I was in the Engineering library yesterday and I saw a flyer for a queer Book club

Blake: Oakland has done one of those before. That's a good one. My last question for you then is of all of the stuff that you saw or got or noticed while you were there, for other teams that want to do a pride meet, what was the one thing that sticks out to you? This is the thing I thought of first?

Anna: I think switching the flags

Kino: Don't ask for permission, ask for forgiveness.

Blake: Yeah, it's perfect. Switch the judges flags. Love it. Alright cool, we're gonna say bye to you, we'll see you at regionals, and thanks for being so nice to us on the internet, and also you're always so kind to us.

Kino: We really appreciate it.

Anna: Well thank you for always being so kind to me.

Kino: Of course, we love you. You're great.

Blake: All right, we'll talk to you later. So good to finally meet you.

*****

Blake: Thanks again for listening to this episode. If you want to hear more from us, you can follow us on social media @HIHOPodcast on twitter and instagram. We have a link tree that will take you to other ways to listen to the podcast, to our Patreon and to our TeePublic store. Special shout out as always to our Patreon supporters who are absolutely going to be making traveling to regionals happen this year. So we thank you so much. If you want to support us financially, You can do so for as little as $1 a month or any other amount that you choose. Thanks again to all of you and we'll see you next week.
