

Savannah: They're not the only ones, you know, so having someone kind of that's in the public eye that they can look up to um I think has helped helped a lot for sure

Kino: and you can be that person. oh my god, I can't deal.

Kino: Hello! I'm kino
Blake: And I'm Blake
Kino: and welcome to half in half out. The only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast

[0:01:03] Blake: and we are joining you from a couple of weeks after we recorded this episode, which is an interview with Savannah Schoenherr, another lovely openly LGBTQ plus gymnast who we got to learn about after our interview with Ella Douglas. Um and so that was a nice, lovely um chain effect that we had that um we're able to learn about some other folks, we've got a couple other interviews that were working on um but we're excited that we got to talk to Sav and she was so lovely.

[0:01:39] Savannah: Yes, she really was, if you don't know who she is, she's a gymnast at the University of Florida. Um but yeah, she's really lovely. Um I really think that everyone's going to enjoy this interview.

[0:01:50] Blake: Yeah, she was great. And the first, the very first thing that we talk about is Florida releasing a statement around Black Lives Matter um and so we wanted to make sure we talked about that and make sure you knew that was the thing that we started off talking about because that is kind of where we're trying to focus our efforts with the podcast at this point. Um so I know my podcast time in my week over the last couple of weeks has been trying to figure out some episodes that are intentionally focused on black gymnasts and providing spaces for black gymnast to share stories. Obviously people are struggling and are busy and they're going through a lot right now. Um so those are just some things that are taking time to set up um in the meantime we've got some social media stuff that we're releasing um and we hope to have some episodes focusing on Black Lives Matter on black gymnasts to you as soon as we can.

Kino: Yes

Blake: and so with that in mind in this episode description, we'll have some links for you to get involved, some funds that still need money, all that stuff, so you can continue your support of Black Lives Matter and of the black folks in your community and in the gymnastics community in the meantime enjoy our interview with Sav Schoenherr,

[0:03:58] Blake: Okay, so joining us for our interview today is Savannah Schoenherr. Savannah, thank you so much for joining us.

[0:04:05] Savannah: Thank you for having me. I'm excited.

[0:04:08] Blake: We are too

[0:04:09] Kino: We're excited to have you

[0:04:10] Blake: especially because um folks who listened to our last interview might know that we weren't necessarily sure that we were going to find many people to talk to when we started this podcast or even we did the last episode. Um, so we're, we're really glad to have you. Uh the first thing I want to ask about it just because it's um, something that's super topical happened today. Um, your whole team got together and decided to wait a little bit. Um, and then come up with a collective statement around Black Lives Matter and to release that after everybody had gotten to weigh in and and should talk about as a team um and some folks on Twitter had asked, what was that, what was that process like for you to put that out as a team?

[0:05:01] Savannah: Um it was definitely a long process. We've been talking about this for several days, so I know a lot of people thought that we were just being silent and not really speaking up or saying anything, but we were behind the scenes like having team meetings and um constantly talking and our team group me um sending links back and forth trying to become more educated on everything, um sending back and forth petitions and things that like donations and just all sorts of things. So we really have been talking a lot about it as a team for several days now um for our statement, it was definitely a collective effort just because um we didn't want to just throw everything, just throw a blob of words together and just throw it out there for people to be satisfied and be like oh they're speaking up. We truly wanted everything to be authentic and come from the heart of everybody. Um in our team group me, we were all sending different things that we could say and just trying to all put our minds together to truly have it come from the heart and it not just be something that we put together last minute just to put out there just to please everyone and like we saw we definitely saw the backlash and everything, but um we weren't being silent behind the scenes. It was just something that we truly wanted to be authentic.

[0:06:17] Blake: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And I think we saw some people who did rush either before there started to be some controversy on Twitter and during that I think some people did rush and that didn't necessarily go as well as I think it's gone for you all so far Today. I've only really seen folks responding positively.

[0:06:39] Kino: Yeah, people were happy.

Savannah: Mm hmm. Yeah. All that from yesterday

[0:06:45] Blake: today has been a lot better than yesterday. I'm glad. Um what were some of the things that were challenging for you all as a team, looking at like other other schools or teams have gotten some criticism after putting out statements, what were some things that you all were thinking about in terms of how you wanted to to handle this or the things that were said that stuck out to you, that people brought up um as much as you can share with, like obviously keeping people's stuff as well as private as they need to

[0:07:20] Savannah: right? Um, as for talking with a team and everything we didn't bring up, um what other people were saying or even like the statements from other schools or other people or anything really? Um our main focus was just saying what we could do and what we could say and um, just making sure that our words were really going to line up with our actions because we didn't want to just say that we support this or we're going to do better. Like we want to actually put these things into action and truly make a difference and be the change, you know? Um, so we just had like long meetings and we actually had um, Sierra, Trinity and Naya, they talked a lot with us and try to educate us a lot more on just um, since they do understand um, everything since they are African Americans, so they just tried to educate us and um, you know, our main goal was just to support them as our teammates. I mean they're like sisters to all of us to me and yeah, so just truly seeing what they needed and what they thought would be best. Um they really had a lot to do with our final statement and everything, so

[0:08:32] Blake: yeah, that's perfect.

[0:08:33] Kino: Good. Yeah,

[0:08:35] Blake: and I'm glad that you all, I'm not, I'm not glad you all had that experience in that, the reasons why you all had to have that experience, but I do think it shows like the power and importance of um, in, in NCAA Sometimes it looks like um, like a 'rah rah' team thing, but really it's, it's deeper than that. It's because of stuff like this. Um, and how much you can learn from each other and, and grow with each other and um that's really great. So thanks thanks for sharing about that cause I know it's fresh and new for you, but I'm glad today is going better.

[0:09:09] Savannah: Yeah, of course, me too.

Kino: So from @IloveNCAA gym on twitter. What words do you use to describe your sexual orientation?

Savannah: Um So when I first started coming out and telling people about myself, um I really didn't want to attach a true label to me and I was just really scared of doing that. I don't know if I just couldn't really accept it of myself or if I was scared of the judgment or feels a little bit of both, but um when I first started telling people about myself, I would just straight up being like, oh I like girls and I really just never attached a label to myself for the longest time. Um But now being out for, I mean to my friends and everything for about two years now, I'm being out to my family for a little over a year. Um I call myself gay and I'm proud to say that. So

Kino: yeah, I mean labels are a journey for everyone.

Savannah: For Sure

[0:10:05] Blake: Yeah, I think they were for both of us.

Kino: Oh yeah, definitely. Like I'm someone who came out um and I'm still not completely out um for a variety of reasons, but like it was a journey and even getting there to like bi was like a huge thing.

Savannah: Yeah, me too.

Kino: It's hard.

Savannah: It's harder

Kino: it's so hard and it's like one of those things like um I always like tell people now I'm like you do not have to have everything figured out when you're 15 years old.

Savannah: exactly

Kino: I go I didn't figure things out until I was in college and then I was in denial anyway like and then you can look back and be like oh yeah that that and that but

Savannah: Exactly

[0:10:45] Blake: yeah I should I should have known.

[0:10:48] Kino: I mean, we watched Stick It so we should have known

[0:10:50] Blake: we watched, go back and watch stick and it's like oh wow yeah we're mmm hmm

Kino: Real gay. Literally what it is

Blake: that's crazy. So I think the thing that most the most people asked about on twitter was what was it like coming out to your team and what did that look like? What was that, the timeline and um how did people react on your team?

[0:11:16] Savannah: Um So I didn't come out to all of my team at once or anything, it's not like I kind of like group them all together, it's like hey like I'm gay. Um no, it was um it was a long process for sure. Um my two closest friends on the team, I told them first, I actually told them like the summer of our freshman year, so it was like right after getting to college that I told them about myself and they were super super supportive from the very beginning um Just like as soon as I told them they're like "Sav, like we know" and so I don't know if um it was just like kind of obvious like the way I acted but they weren't surprised. My two closest friends were not surprised when I told them at all, but they were super super supportive and um it was definitely an emotional conversation with them. Um It was like the first time I had actually really come out and like told people in person and been like I like girls. Um but uh they were super loving, super supportive, they were like Sav, like it's ok we love you where this doesn't change anything like you're still Sav, you know, so just super supportive when I told them and then um as for the rest of my team, I was in a previous relationship my freshman year and everyone just kind of started piecing together what was going on and um just slowly more and more people started finding out and every time someone found out they're like aww, Sav, like I'm so happy for you and just super super supportive and loving. Um It's just been such a normal thing for me, like no one's ever made it weird, no one's ever made me feel uncomfortable, to me, like no one seems uncomfortable around me and I really don't think anyone is, it's just something that they like truly normalized so much with me and so I'm super thankful for their support and their love.

Kino: Aww. It's like so cute

[0:13:10] Savannah: It definitely, yeah, it definitely went really well for me,

[0:13:14] Blake: I don't think that is what any of us when we were like kids, would have expected.

[0:13:24] Savannah: Exactly. Not at all, no.

[0:13:27] Blake: Um one of the things that people also asked about was like, did you ever actually like come out publicly or was it one of just like slowly people figured it out and it seems like both like with team in school and um online that in in a way that people kind of normalizing you're being gay like around you, that you kind of just took that same approach, it seems online where you're just like posting as if that wasn't anything different.

Kino: Here's my girlfriend

[0:13:52] Savannah: Yeah, exactly, it wasn't, it was again more like a process. Um I never really had like a like a coming out post, I mean my first post on instagram with my girlfriend Syd um I mean that's when pretty much everyone kind of like figure it out or their you know, suspicions were confirmed or whatever um but just like slowly um me and Syd had when we started talking and dating, she just made me feel super comfortable with everything and just since dating her have become so much more comfortable with my sexuality. Um So I would start posting her like on my private story and then you know that escalates it, posting her like on my real story on Snapchat and everything And then I would like start post or start like re posting her stories that she would post of me. And so, um, I think a lot of people definitely had their suspicions, but then I actually posted a Tiktok with her and that's when everyone kind of blew up. They were like, oh my gosh, like Sav is gay, like all this stuff like that she was posted with her girlfriend. Um, so I guess that was like, it, I never intended it to be like coming out like, so like here I am or whatever. Um, but I guess that's how just like a lot of people took it just because a lot of people didn't know. So, um, yeah, it was just like a process over the, over the years.

[0:15:13] Blake: Um, yeah, that's, I think that's what it is for a lot of us. And I think when there's like straight people ask like, oh, when did you come out? It's very much like, oh, this happened one day. Whereas in reality it's like, no, like you never know which of those posts people are gonna catch on to

[0:15:31] Kino: like, it can be very gradual. Like I was talking to my best friend and she's like, well technically was I the first person that you came out to and I was like, well, technically, yeah, like I think you were because I said, I think this and even though I wasn't sure you were the first person I ever told so to me that counts, like you can have my soft coming out.

Savannah: Yeah, exactly.

[0:15:56] Blake: Syd is an athlete too. Right?

[0:15:57] Savannah: Yeah, she plays soccer at UF

[0:16:00] Blake: I think it's really interesting so that the two people we've talked to so far um we're both dating other athletes at their school. Um how has that been for you and dating somebody who is also like somewhat in the public eye who like is also in a sport, but who's in a sport where being gay is very different than being gay in gymnastics is

[0:16:25] Savannah: Exactly, yeah. Being gay in soccer is a lot different than being gay in gymnastics. You know, we're, me and her were actually just talking about this the other day were like, I think like half of her team is gay and like I'm the only one on my team that's gay. Um But dating her has been I mean a lot of fun. It's completely normal. A lot of the athletes at most universities. Um Just kind of like stick around with each other and her friends just going to meetings or going around campus together. Um Just to kind of kind of come friends with everyone. Um So we were never really like friends at first but um we like we would see each other around, but it's just been completely normal just seeing her. Um We have like the Hawkins, it's called Hawkins, like the student academic advising center um that we could it's like just for student athletes. Um But we go there together and it's just been a lot of fun just being able to relate to her I guess as an athlete. And um just seeing I guess just learning about different sports and stuff like that, seeing how her schedule works, comparing our workouts and stuff like that.

[0:17:34] Blake: That's awesome. I'm glad you have like that whole athlete community

[0:17:40] Kino: Sorry I just looked up your girlfriend on the university of Florida website. So cute.

Savannah: Yeah she's the best.

Kino: Oh my gosh she's from Canada sorry

Savannah: yeah she's from like Canada Canada

Kino: like real Canada

[0:18:00] Blake: That's a Canada thing too

[0:18:01] Kino: yeah the gay Canada athletes?

[0:18:03] Blake: Yeah. That's so crazy. Um What the thing that I think is really cute like whenever I see a couple I'm like oh my God they're super cute. That is always because like when I when you see pictures of them with each other like you can just like feel the like radiating joy that comes from them and that's what I get from from you too and it's just so nice.

[0:18:29] Savannah: Yeah that's what a lot of people have said. Just like even my teammates from when I first started dating her they're like Sav you seemed so genuinely happy like I've never seen you smile this way and like I'll come into practice just like smiling and giggling like from not even seeing her but just like in a relationship I feel like people can like be happy with that person, but I feel like when you're with the right person, like they just make every aspect of life so much happier, like you don't even have to like be with them to be happy just like life in general is just so happy and that's exactly how I've been with her and a lot of people have definitely pointed that out

Kino: it just makes me happy listening to you talk about it

[0:19:09] Blake: I know I just like it's I just want to take this and like time travel it and send it to like nine year old me but also like nine year old, you. you know?

[0:19:26] Savannah: literally it's something I pushed away for so long if if I could have seen like how happy I am now, this is hands down the happiest I've ever been in any relationship, if I could just like feel half of this happiness when I was younger and questioning things, you know, I think that would have changed a lot of things for me,

[0:19:44] Blake: So our friend on Twitter @kylas40 asked about really specifically if it's hard to be a gay person to be out in a sport that's so heteronormative um and how did growing up in that space impact the ways that you saw yourself for your own journey to understanding yourself

[0:20:08] Savannah: um Yeah, gymnastics is definitely seen as like a straight sport um I mean growing up, I didn't have really, I don't think I had any teammates that were gay, so it was just like so normal for girls to talk about their boyfriends and everything and I dated boys too, but um I just, I guess I was never genuinely like happy the way I am now, um but it was definitely a super scary thing just because I did feel like I was alone and I didn't really have anyone around me who I felt would feel the same feelings as I did inside. Um so it's just something that I pushed away for so long and I was just so scared about the judgment of others and um being gay growing up always just had such a negative stigma and so it was just something that I pushed away for so long and especially being in gymnastics and being with other gymnasts who it was just not a normal thing, um but I think now in today's society, being gay like is becoming more normal and more people are becoming way more accepting of it and um like being out on my team now is just like a super normal thing and I really don't feel different about it um after publicly coming out on social media and everything, um I mean it just has honestly made everything kind of better. Um I don't feel weird about anything anymore. Um it's just all been a super good experience for me, I mean I haven't really faced any hardships or anything, so super blessed to have that for sure,

[0:21:55] Blake: so good. Um yeah, it's just, it's, you had said like you came out to some people that they've had this reaction of like that they kind of knew and in my head, the Venn diagram of like, things about you that could make that true and, and things that are gonna like get you literally in trouble in gymnastics has like a lot of overlap, right? And I think it could be really scary to like be in those spaces and not feel safe to like explore anything to be put in this box all the time

[0:22:41] Savannah: and especially in college gymnastics, there's, I mean our entire fan base is like a bunch of little girls and so, um, that was definitely something that I took into consideration and another reason I was just like so scared for people to know. Um I didn't want my fans to look differently about or see me differently, you know, or have mixed opinions on me um, as a person or anything like that and that's just something that I feared for so long, but after starting to post it on instagram and everything and people seeing how happy I am and stuff, I've actually had several little gymnasts like reach out to me, which has been like, I like you inspired me to like come out to my mom and stuff like that, so it's just like, it's so hard, you know, I just love it. And it's just like so many little girls that they're saying that like it is normal and like, it's okay and they're not the only ones, you know, so having someone kind of, that's in the public eye that they can look up to. Um, I think has helped helped a lot for sure.

Kino: And you can be that person, Oh my God, I can't deal, I cannot

[0:23:44] Blake: also, definitely the cold open.

Kino: Okay, so when you did start coming out, did you know of any other LGBTQ+ um women's gymnasts? Because just to preface that question, um, we even didn't know a lot um until we started like doing work for this podcast. So

Savannah: Right. Yeah. I actually knew of one. I'm friends with her. I've been friends with her for several years now. We went on, we were both from region eight. So we went on a region 8 trip together. Um, but yeah, I knew of her. But other than that, I didn't know anybody. Nobody at all. I was like, oh gosh, I'm like one of the only ones, this is terrifying.

Kino: Well, there are significantly less out women. So, and that's what we've learned from some of our research. Um, is that if there are like, because there have been a gymnast, historic gymnast Sure. That's how I'm gonna say it who people are like, hey, this person is gay. But then it's like every source is not in english. And I'm like, I can't,

[0:24:51] Blake: that's when you came out, we were talking about German and the one person we found all the sources are in German.

[0:24:56] Kino: So if you know someone who speaks German,

[0:24:59] Blake: I'm telling you, we gotta ask Deanna to ask. Um,

[0:25:02] Kino: Yes, maybe she just knows because german gymnastics,

[0:25:07] Blake: I'm really glad that you, I knew someone.

Savannah: Yeah

Blake: That's been different from other people we've talked to.

[0:25:17] Blake: That you knew early on that you at least weren't completely alone.

Savannah: Yeah

[0:25:25] Kino: You're like, hey, there's this one other person in my sport.

Savannah: Exactly

Kino: cling to that.

Savannah: Yeah. And I think if um, we didn't go to the same gym or anything, we were from the same state, but I think that if she would have been like one of my teammates, it would have been a lot easier because I said we could have like bonded over that. But it was just something that like when she told me that she was gay and stuff, I was like, oh my gosh, like there's another gay girl. Like that's, that's crazy, what the heck? And um, but it was just something still that I just, I couldn't really accept of myself and I just pushed away for so long.

[0:26:01] Blake: Same girl. Same.

[0:26:02] Kino: Yeah, I mean, and you're from, I assume from what I understand about the world, that the south makes it a little bit harder.

Savannah: yes

Kino: Am I wrong in saying that? Like, I'm from the midwest, so the midwest isn't great either, trust me, but like the south seems worse.

Savannah: Oh my gosh, the South no good if you're gay, go like not the south

Kino: run away

Savannah: literally, that's like during high school why I would push it away so long as um so many kids I went to school with would just constantly make fun of people for being gay or um there was just such a negative stigma around it and um there weren't, there weren't very many gay people who were out in my high school and there were a few um but again, the people that I hung around with are just everyone in general really just made fun of them and so that's just why I pushed away for so long and um even like at my church um people would talk about that and again just such a negative stigma around it.

Kino: So can you talk about that a little bit um like how um you've navigated being a christian and like being gay.

Savannah: Yeah, my religion was a huge reason as to why I pushed away for so long. Um you know, I was always told that ah God made people to love for a man and a woman, you know, um people in high school, like this comment has stuck with me like for so many years, but people in high school all the time would be like God made Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve and so like, that's just like a comment that was like really like resonated with me and I was just like, yeah, like I guess like God wouldn't love me if I was gay and uh the reason I pushed away for so many years um but the more that I like was accepting of myself um the more I kind of realized that, you know, like a lot of people think that it's a choice to be gay, like you should wake up and you're like, oh, I'm gonna be gay, like, no, not really like people they're born in the way that they're born and I truly believe that God made me this way and um I think that he loves me for who I am and you know, nothing's going to change his love for me. So um and you know, people might not have the same beliefs as that, but um I think that God loves gay people just as much as I love straight people. So

Kino: sorry, my heart's all warm again, it just keeps getting like really warm and like happy

Savannah: It's a happy topic

[0:28:56] Blake: I'm glad that this has all been happy. that we haven't had any ...

[0:28:59] Kino: like, everything you just talked about is like very positive, you're like such a positive person, like it wasn't great in the beginning, but now it's great.

Savannah: Yeah, I try yeah,

Kino: because that is hard for a lot of people like reconciling um sexuality and religion and you know, for some people like, like some people really are able to reconcile like that and some people aren't and I'm glad that like for you that you've been able to

Savannah: Yeah and I guess like another thing is it was when it I mean when it was talked about it was just always so negative but it really wasn't talked about that much, it was always just like boyfriend and girlfriend husband and wife you know? Um there was no talk about being gay was like it was like forbidden or like it didn't exist. So um I think that I think that what you guys have going on with this podcast is super good just to like bring more awareness to this and just let people know that like it is normal and it's okay to talk about it and all that stuff.

Kino: Not everything has to be so heteronormative.

Savannah: Exactly.

[0:30:09] Blake: It is just so insane to me that of all things in the world like gymnastics is becomes so like structurally as a system like homophobic and transphobic when like the vast majority of the fan base is totally like little girls and then the rest of it is queer people like the rest of it gay men and like bi women and like I've found a few other trans people. Um but that like as I started meeting people, we have all had this like shared experience if we had been in the sport at all of like yeah I was in the sport it was really uncomfortable. And then I left,

Kino: right

Blake: And so I was like, well there's people who stayed like there had to be people who, who stayed if this many of us left. But like, and that's a story in itself. But like there have to still be people I was I was watching as a fan and I I knew that you had to exist and didn't know which of you it was. And so the folks we found to talk to aren't necessarily people that I expected um which I think is even more telling, um that it's not like the athletes who are, I'm picking out as gay maybe because they're a little bit more masculine than their other teammates, right? And for me that's my thing because like as a trans person, that was my experience was like feeling more masculine than everybody else. But that that's not necessarily was true for like for for gay people,

Savannah:right

Blake: But I think it's really interesting that we don't see like butch representation and in a sport that's so much about like, every butch I know should be doing vault and floor.

[0:32:10] Kino: Yes. But like, also gymnastics is traditionally such a feminized sport. Like they always talk about little girls and you know, I like wearing bows in their hair and like the the universe can't even get past the fact that you can be a gymnast past the age of 18. Let alone be a gymnast past the age of 18 who's not straight.

Savannah: exactly.

Kino: It's like gymnastics is not just for Children.

[0:32:38] Blake: Yeah, that was the other thing that um made me want to start the podcast or at least made me more like, oh no, I actually need to make this into a thing. Um was my partner has a friend who has a six ish year old kid who is non binary or at least like has expressed a lot of things about gender, but like definitely doesn't identify as male and was assigned male at birth and they just love gymnastics and the first time I met Gussy, we were they had just come from gymnastics practice um from class and um I was doing adult gymnastics and I was like, oh you just came from gymnastics? that's so cool, I do it too. Um and then like the next time we met, they found out that I was trans and we got to talk about that and they have lots of the trans role models in their life, but like to, I realized when I met this kid, I was like this is literally the only other trans person I know who does gymnastics, isn't it? Like ever in the history of gymnastics is the six year old child. Um and now we found some more

[0:33:50] Kino: right. But again, like you have to take oftentimes you end up taking a different path and you have to stop at some point because of the way things are, which we can't really get into

[0:34:05] Blake: I'm not getting my ass in a leotard no more, that's for damn sure. Before we get into some of the more random questions from twitter is there anything else that you wanted to share about? You're coming out experience either inside of the gymnastics community or outside of gymnastics community.

[0:34:22] Savannah: Yeah so um for a lot of people coming out is definitely a scary thing to do is super super scary for me obviously and just something that after talking with a lot of people um it's very normal obviously to push it away and hide it for so long. Um Especially for um athletes who are under a microscope in the NCAA. Or professional or whatever it is. Um And just having like in gymnastics little girls that look up to you, it's just super scary and just the fear of judgment and everything. Um It's just a super hard thing to really comprehend and accept um but pretty much everyone in my life knows now um all my family knows all my teammates obviously um you know posting Syd and just very very happy with that. Um So like everyone knows but yeah just like after starting to tell people, it was literally just like a weight off my shoulders and um it's just like that heavy feeling in your chest that you you walk around and you just feel like you're holding something in for so long and then finally when you can just like let it out, it just, it feels so much better not to hide that and not to have that with you anymore and I think that coming out to yourself is definitely like the hardest thing to do. Um I mean it took me years to come out to myself and after that it just, it didn't take me as long to start coming out. It's like my friends, my family and everything. Um Coming out has for me, I mean I know everyone has different experiences but um it was I haven't received like any hate, any judgment um at least not to my face anyway, but everyone in my life has been so supportive and so loving and even Syd my girlfriend who she's been out for six years now. I mean she came out in eighth grade um she's just really showed me that she is so comfortable and with who she is and just so confident with who she is and she's just really showed me that like just because you're gay, like your life doesn't have to be harder. That's like a lot of people's biggest concern is like oh my life's gonna be so hard if I'm gay or my life is gonna be so hard if I'm just who I am but like it doesn't have to be and um she's just a huge reason that I have become so comfortable with who I am and comfortable sharing with others who I am.

Blake: She sounds really awesome

Savannah: But yeah, but overall just like coming out was the best thing I could have done honestly and I really do wish I would have done it a lot earlier than I did, but at least I'm here now,

[0:37:02] Blake: you're just gonna be a junior, right?

Savannah: Yes.

Blake: Cool. Really nice that you are like still competing and like not like out the door like everybody else who's even like said that we could maybe talk to us either been like seniors or like already like done but like Ella was like yeah we can do interview, but if we wait two months we can definitely do an interview like that kind of thing. Um Whereas like, I think there's that there's been progress at such a rate that like there is a distinct difference between like Ella's experience and your experience, or like mine and Ella's like I think there's like this spectrum of like so much change actually had to happen for you to be doing, to have had such a positive experience. Especially like at Florida.

Savannah: exactly

Blake: That was my main worry was talking to was just like, oh like, if anything's been bad, I don't want you to feel like you have to like blast your team.

[0:38:07] Savannah: No, everything has been so amazing.

Kino: So do you have a favorite NCAA gymnast of all time? And if not do you have a favorite elite or do you have both?

Savannah: Um I don't really have a favorite NCAA gymnast. Um When I was younger when I would look up the NCAA gymnasts I would really just look up to like teams and she's like I wanna be like them. I never really had like a particular one that I idolized or anything. Um I'm gonna get a little sappy, my favorite ones are my teammates obviously um there they're just like my sisters you know and just this whole experience with me coming out and being gay and them being so supportive and them even like befriending my girlfriend and loving her and being so supportive of us has just been great. So they are definitely my favorites. Um As for my favorite elite gymnast, ever since I was younger um When I first started gymnastics um I've always looked up to Kerri Strug. Um I don't know if anybody doesn't know but she was the gymnast in 1996 that competed at the olympics um with a broken ankle to win gold for her team. And you know something about that story has just always really inspired me just to kind of show that like sometimes you just have to do what you have to do and you have to put mind over matter and, I mean obviously no one should work through an injury. That's not what I'm saying, because I've definitely worked through injuries and just made a lot of things worse. But um you know, she did what she had to do for her team and she put her team first in that situation and I just thought that was really inspiring, especially with being um a collegiate athlete now and before, like in club, it was more  individualized. Um but coming to college it's all about the team. So I've always looked up to her

Kino: P. S. If you're listening to this podcast and you don't know who Keri Strug is please go read a Wikipedia article.

Savannah: Yeah, I really wasn't sure because some people just I don't know

Kino: the only person who shouldn't know who Kerri Strug is who listens to this podcast is my best friend and I think she still does. Or she'll text me if she doesn't

[0:40:19] Blake: I'm trying to, hold on, I'm trying to look this up so I don't say the wrong thing. Um She was also prominently featured in the educational workshop that I recently attended, put on by the gymternet's Meghan Cleary about jewish gymnasts.

[0:40:37] Savannah: Oh, Kerri strug is jewish? I did not know that

[0:40:40] Blake: I didn't either until I was watching Megan's presentation

[0:40:43] Kino: that is like that's really like, we all know like Ali Raisman is jewish but like I did not know Kerri strug was jewish.

Savannah: I didn't know that either

[0:40:54] Blake: Or I'm wrong and I hallucinated that part of Meghan's presentation, but I'm 99% sure that that picture of her being carried was in there.

[0:41:01] Kino: Gymternet confirm please.

[0:41:06] Blake: I'll just ask before we post it. That was really cool session though. Um Okay, next one, a bunch of people including Jill Benson asked, how did you choose Florida? And what do you love about it?

[0:41:20] Savannah: Um Honestly, like there's not much to not love about Florida. Like every, everything about Florida, I'm in love with it. Um you know when I chose to commit to Florida was actually committed somewhere else before, I was committed to Auburn. Um but I chose to start looking around and just explore my options more. I was really young when I committed to Auburn and there was a lot of different changes with the team and the coaching staff and um, so when I started looking at Florida, um there was definitely a lot of things that, I don't think there's really any negative things for committing to Florida. Um the coaching staff, I feel like it's just incomparable to any other coaching staff like in the nation. I mean, I'm sure every team is going to say that about their coaches, but there's just something super special about Jenny, Owen and Adrian and even um like Jeremy, our volunteer coach who is also our choreographer, um there's just something special about all of them. Um Obviously the gymnastics program as a whole is just incredible and just something I'm so blessed to be a part of um Florida itself, like the campus, it's beautiful. There's palm trees everywhere. The buildings are awesome. Um the the thing, just like the resources that they have to offer is super, super nice and just super helpful being an athlete. Um and then obviously The academics has also played a big part, being a top 10 university, um that was just another big contributor and I think that the biggest contributor that really helped me to decide to commit to Florida was just the team as a whole. Um when I visited Florida, even not not knowing any of the girls on the team, I wasn't really close with, any of them, hadn't really compete with any, any of them or anything like that. Um but I could just sense that there was just like a family, it was just a family and just like the atmosphere um was just so genuine and everyone just truly loved each other like sisters and that's exactly how it is now, you know, I definitely wasn't wrong about that part. They, all of the girls are like my sisters and I really couldn't imagine myself anywhere else. So

Kino: can I ask a question that you were talking about academics, What's your major?

Savannah: I'm a sports management major with a minor in business.

Kino: Okay. I just was curious because I couldn't find it, um unless I didn't look correctly,

Savannah: I don't even know if it's out There

Kino: Oh, it says sports management, but now we also know that you have a, with the focus of business, so I'm always curious about majors. I like it when they put that on the screen like I want to know you're in school, right?

Blake: I'm an academic advisor, so I always want to known

Kino: You're here for, you're literally in school like, it's like you're doing gymnastics and that's great. But it's also like your education is so important.

Savannah: I know this is probably terrible, like I literally forget about that so often like, oh yeah like college, like I'm not here to like trying to get a degree. Like what the heck?

Kino: But like at least like I will say the one thing about gymnastics is is that pretty much everyone graduates and you don't see that in some other sports which is like that's everyone's choice. And um obviously like in a lot of sports you have to play college before you can go pro. But like it's like whenever I see a basketball player, especially in women's basketball, not graduate, like leave to go to like the WNBA I'm like no I don't like stay finish your degree.

Savannah: Yeah. Exactly. Especially what you pay for

[0:44:50] Blake: Right? I think that is a difference with gymnastics is you know, unless you're one of like an actual like handful of people um that when you're done with your college career you're going to move into like a professional capacity and and probably not compete.

Savannah: Yeah.

[0:45:14] Savannah: It's gonna be a thing on your Linkedin

[0:45:18] Blake: two more years. Um What is the like is there like a dream job or a thing that like inspired you to pick that major?

[0:45:25] Savannah: Um, yeah, so going into college, I was actually a psychology major. Um, I switched that like my 2nd semester of college.

Kino: I think this is Kino, I'm just cutting in to say that part of the interview cut out. And after this, Savannah briefly just talks about how when gymnastics is over for most people, it's just over

Savannah: no more competing. Nothing like that. So I was like, I'm not gonna lie. I know that I'm not being able to walk away from the sport after my last meet. So that's when I decided to switch my major to sports management. Um, I actually want to either open up my own gym and be a head coach there or be a head coach for a university. I saw that, Um, was it Gracie Kramer? Just making sure

Blake: No, she got a job

Kino: Who hired her?

[0:46:19] Savannah: Utah, as an assistant coach.

Blake: Is it, I think it's Utah State

Kino: How'd I miss that?! That's really exciting though.

Savannah: Yeah.

Kino: I hope you get a job,

Savannah: Yeah I really want to

Kino: We'll come to a meeting and visit you, if we can come to Florida, we would. Hey, if there's gymnastics next year and you're anywhere close to us, We will totally come see you.

Savannah: perfect

Kino: So come to like the Great Lakes area.

Savannah: Okay noted.

Kino: Tell Florida's athletic department.

Savannah: "Um, I have a request"

[0:46:48] Blake: Yeah. I haven't looked at anything from like, I don't know, like Florida's usual schedule.

[0:46:57] Kino: I'm gonna pull it up.

Savannah: We usually have a meet against all SEC teams and then we'll have like one random team, usually in the past two years it's been, we've competed against Penn State. I know the like random as in like out of our conference.

Kino: Okay. We could go to Kentucky.

[0:47:16] Blake: Yes. It's actually easier for me to just go to Florida.

Kino: Well I'm poor. I'm a teacher.

Blake: My grandpa half lives in Florida.

[0:47:27] Savannah: Well, my sister used to, my sister's moving, my sister used to live in Kentucky

[0:47:34] Blake: volunteer. Yeah. So Gracie Kramer is going to be the volunteer assistant coach at Utah state.

[0:47:41] Kino: Okay. Utah. Which has three gymnastics teams, which is insane.

Savannah: Yeah, I get so confused. So confused,

Kino: Florida only has one. Right?

Savannah: Yeah. Yes,

Kino: Indiana has ...

[0:47:55] Blake: I'm in michigan, so I'm spoiled

[0:47:57] Kino: I'm in indiana. I think we have one,

[0:48:01] Blake: We've got like six. Like we have like six, we have Michigan, Michigan State, Eastern, Western, Central,

[0:48:14] Savannah: Oh, just like colleges in general?

Kino: gymnastics

Savannah: They all have gymnastics?

Kino: when we have gymnastics when we had our interview with Randy Lane and he was like, talking about, I was like, I really hope whatever school is going to be a new school is in Indiana and he's like, it's not and I'm like, come on, give me something, We don't have much.

[0:48:37] Blake: yeah I can't get to Long island.

[0:48:40] Kino: So assuming there is a next season or not. Next season, but a season this year, they're not canceling gymnastics forever. That would be horrible. Um, do you have anything in store or in mind for your next floor routine?

Savannah: Um Not as of right now, I don't have anything like special planned. Um I definitely want to start getting in more consistently in floor, I want to be a consistent contributor. Um I definitely want to get an E pass because I mean this past year my first pass was just a double back and I ended with a double pipe. Um So I want to get an E pass, so I'll probably be working on that. Um But floor passes like honestly change so frequently and I before this past season I was playing with like four different first passes and like I couldn't like stick with one and that's why I ended up just sticking with a double back. Um but like even like during season though like change up our floor passes, so I don't really know what's in store, but I'm just hoping to be in line up at this point,

Kino: we'll be rooting for you.

Savannah: Thank you.

Kino: You have us

[0:49:46] Blake: You don't need to change much. My official suggestion is change as little as possible on bars because that routine is great.

[0:49:51] Kino: Yes, beautiful doesn't not need anything else and I obviously seen it once, which is really bad of me, but now I hope, you know, I'm gonna stop all your routines, so even though I'm I'm not a great judge because I'll text Blake, I'll be like, that looked great, he's like there was this one thing and well that's usually beam though.

Savannah: Yeah.

Kino: Usually be, he'll be like you missed a wobble and I'm like, it was a wobble.

Savannah: Like so amazed I can like do this stuff but still like watching like wow,

Kino: I'm picking about leg separation. I'll be watching a bars routine. I'm like nope.

Savannah: Mm hmm.

Kino: Like I could ever do any of that.

[0:50:34] Blake: I know

Kino: maybe when I was eight

Blake: I can't, the only thing that it's harder than uneven bars is high bar, which like that has to be, have to figure out what we have to get out of here for that to be an episode of like what it's like to be a trans person and like go back into the gym and all of a sudden be expected to like use completely different equipment

[0:50:59] Kino: I, we used to have abs and that was when I could do gymnastics

[0:51:05] Blake: oh god I miss abs and calluses

[0:51:06] Kino: considering all of that and I just made a hand gesture that no one can see. What are your goals for gymnastics in the next year or longer.

Savannah: Um, I mean I only have two years left of gymnastics. Um, but I have a lot of goals for sure, definitely for this next season and just for my career in general. Um, you know, my main goal and my team's goal as a whole we, We're all on the same page with our number one goal and our number one priority is winning a national championship and that's definitely what we trained for the hardest and what we want more than anything more than any individual title we could ever get is we just want to win nationals. Um so that's definitely up there as number one goal um but other than that, like I said earlier, just like gymnastics being so much of a team sport in college, um all of my goals um like my top goals are team oriented, so the other goals would be winning SECs and having another season like we did this past season, that would be amazing.

[0:52:09] Blake: it was the worst season to get cut short.

[0:52:11] Kino: I know, I know we were all like Florida question mark is going to do it.

Savannah: So we were like we were like us?

[0:52:22] Blake: It was like you and Oklahoma.

[0:52:23] Savannah: Yeah,

[0:52:26] Kino: not to be like sad but like major come back too after like post season last year, like not to be sad, but like for sure for sure, like great season after post season last year and then everything just got corona so

Savannah: yeah, exactly for sure. But yeah, just having another like undefeated season would be an incredible experience and then for like my individual goals um I have two all American honors right now and um all freshmen SEC and then this year I got all SEC. Um so just like add on to those, I want to get more all American honors. I really want to get all American on all four events. Um that's definitely a huge goal of mine and then um winning a national title like individually would also be super cool. Obviously, I'd much rather win the team title, but you know, um winning an individual and I feel like would be

Kino: That's special took

Savannah: exactly, exactly. Um and honestly just like the small goal of just like getting into all around and competing all around, I've never competed, being in college, I've completed the other three, but um just getting into that all around line of spot would be super special and it's a huge goal of mine for the next two years.

Kino: Oh my gosh, I have so many hopes and dreams for you.

Savannah: Me too. I like cry every night. I'm like please please please please.

[0:53:50] Blake: I am really glad that one of the things that I wanted to get out of this podcast personally, like not even for the benefit of like everybody though it it is um was having more generous and more teams to root for and so we were already, me and Kino, we're already really excited to start rooting for Florida.

Kino: Yes

Blake: although people have deferred.

[0:54:18] Kino: Yes, people have deferred,

[0:54:19] Blake: but so we were like getting ready to go, but now we have all the reasons

[0:54:24] Kino: we do, it's like you're bringing us early, gonna be so knowledgeable about Florida.

Savannah: That makes it so much more fun to when you know someone out there.

Kino: Yes, we're gonna be like that's her that's our girl.

Savannah:We zoomed with her.

Kino: We zoomed with her during quarantine. Although we're not quarantine is kind of ehh anymore.

[0:54:46] Blake: At least you're in Florida. It's going to be straight up embarrassing for Ella because I'm an hour away

[0:54:52] Kino: You know I'm coming yeah and I live like not that far either so

[0:54:58] Blake: we're going she's going to stay on and coach and so like I'm like oh I will

[0:55:02] Kino: we're going to go and we are going to embarrass her so bad.

Savannah: That's great

[0:55:09] Blake: Oh this question wasn't on here but I want to ask it um Any conversation or thoughts about Florida doing a pride meat and how do we make it happen?

[0:55:23] Savannah: I know I would love that like honestly um like with everything going on recently with like the Black Lives Matter and everything I think um just like all the teams making a statement and like prioritizing like black lives and all that stuff. I think that it's also and I'm not in any way do I want to take away from anything that's going on right now in the world. Um But I think it is so important to recognize those minorities and being gay you know is a type of minority and um I think by bringing more awareness to it and stuff like that would just be super special especially for someone on the team who is gay you know. Um But I think having a pride meet would be a super super cool thing. I know that UCLA does it and I was so jealous. Um I was telling Syd all about it. I was like look like UCLA is having a private like the rainbow flags everywhere. Like they're just like having the time of their lives like why can't Florida do this? I want you to run around the gym in a rainbow flag. That's all I want for.

Savannah: Oh my gosh I can picture it now. It's like a dream.

[0:56:28] Blake: I mean I don't see why not, so

[0:56:33] Kino: Exactly!

[0:56:35] Blake: However we can support that happening including like um my former job was I was the LGBT coordinator for a university. Um For one of like the offshoots of U of M (Michigan). Um And so I'm sure you all have all the resources because you can just call like Dom and Deanna and all of them and just be like UCLA We're going to do exactly what you did. Is that fine? But also like if anybody needs to do any work or labor and then we can go to Florida

[0:57:09] Savannah: Have it on a good weekend. Have it on a good weekend when I can take off work

[0:57:12] Blake: Okay so last question then we'll let you go back to your I'm sure very busy life right now. Um But

Kino: I'm not sure if that was sarcastic or no

Blake: it was. it was we can't do anything. Um

[0:57:27] Savannah: Yeah no I don't do anything except for Facetime my girlfriend, that's the only thing I do

[0:57:34] Blake: I miss being young and gay in love that was um and now I'm just old and

[0:57:39] Savannah: I know you said you're like my girlfriend came out when she was in eighth grade, I was like oh my God we're ancient. I'm 27

[0:57:46] Blake: So am I. like it's so crazy that we met, we met randomly like in line to get into regionals. We were the two adults they're wearing UCLA Shirts and then we both happened to be the same exact age. Yeah it's crazy. Um Okay so uh last question for you, we've talked about growing up and feeling like you were the only person who was gay and in gymnastics and not really seeing anyone um who you can look up to who had that experience and so now that you have trailblazing on the other side of that, what advice would you give to gay gymnasts, to anyone who's LGBTQ+ and part of the gymnastics community

[0:58:41] Savannah: Yeah. If I could talk to or give any advice to the younger LGBTQ in this or even the ones that are my age or older or just talking to my younger self um something that I wish that I had heard when I was younger is that it's okay to be gay and there's nothing wrong with that, there's nothing wrong with expressing who you are, um being ashamed of who you are and you know, tucking that part of yourself away for so long. Um there's just nothing wrong with it and it is becoming so much more normal and um no one should ever have to feel alone in those scenarios. There's so many people out there that's like them and um I know that in gymnastics, it it is hard to see that because there aren't very many people in the sport, but in general, there are so many people out there and I know that the world sometimes can definitely place a negative stigma on it and make it a lot harder than it should be. But I think that what I wish I would have known back then, is that your true friends will support you, Your true friends will love you, they're not gonna look at you any differently, they're gonna stand by your side, no matter if you're straight, you're gay, whatever you are, um your true friends will be there by your side, no matter what, and there's just a whole community out there with open arms, waiting to welcome you and support you and love you.

[1:00:07] Blake: There's no more perfect things to end on.

Kino: I'm going to start crying

Blake: So thank you so much for being here. It was so lovely to talk to you and hopefully we'll get to see you at a meet soon.

[1:00:21] Kino: Yes, we totally want you to come back. I don't know when we're going to have you come back but you need to come back.

[1:00:26] Blake: I think we're going to try to get I think we're going to try to get everybody that we talked to all back on at once.

Savannah: Yeah, that would be so much fun

[1:00:33] Kino: Yeah, it'll be like like the gay gymnast panel and we're the moderators. I was thinking about this earlier and I was like oh my goodness, oh together,

Savannah: I would love that.

[1:00:47] Blake: At first. I was like how can we get everybody in one place? And I was like well even like not everybody is going to be at like nationals or whatever. And so I was like well if we can get let's like utilize the we're all stuck at home, we're figuring it out

[1:01:01] Savannah: There's more and more

[1:01:03] Blake: Thank you so much for listening to our interview with Sav. If you want to connect to us on social media, we are on twitter and instagram  @HIHOpodcast, you can email us at halfinhalfoutpodcast@gmail.com. I'm on twitter and instagram as @HIHOBlake

[1:01:27] Kino: and I'm on twitter as @thewolfkino Of you know Jordan child's wolf kino fame

[1:01:36] Blake: and just a reminder, we'll have some links in the description  with petitions and resources so that you can continue to support Black Lives Matter. Thanks again and just a reminder will have some links in the description for this episode so that you can continue to support Black Lives Matter financially through your social media by showing up however you can

[1:01:59] Kino: because this podcast unequivocally supports the Black Lives Matter movement and we're trying to do what we can

[1:02:06] Blake: be safe and we will see you soon.

Kino: See you soon, Bye!
