null: 

spk_0: I'm doing this for the long run and I'm doing this so that when my baby sister gets to college, she's treated with respect and when my baby brother and my other baby sister gets to college, they're treated with respect and they have equal opportunity because my family is so talented and beautiful and I just want the best for them. Thank you.

spk_1: Hi

spk_2: and welcome to Half In Half Out Podcast The only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast. My name is Kino

spk_3: and I'm blake and today we have an interview with Mark Ceta fraser from U C L. A to talk about her activism and the black lives Matter movement and there was just a few things that we wanted to say up top before you get to hear all of the important and wonderful things that mars had to share. so we want this podcast to be a platform for change and there's nothing more important for us to be doing right now than supporting and elevating black voices and protecting black bodies in any way that we can we've always said that our podcast is inherently queer because we're queer people making it and having the conversations and that our content doesn't always have to be specifically queer for the show to be queer We also know that we need to have conversations about racism within the queer community as well as beyond it. We

spk_2: want to acknowledge that historically many queer communities have reproduced and reinforced racism and committing to anti racist work is the first step, queer white people must take to acknowledge this history and do better. Additionally movements to end homophobia. Hetero sexism, cyst sexism and transphobia are completely interwoven with movements to end racism. Classism, sexism, able ism anti Semitism, islamophobia and all other forms of systematic

spk_3: oppression. We are to white people doing our best to make this podcast of vessel for anti racism. We welcome your feedback as we continually learn. We are also working behind the scenes every day to learn to avoid causing that harm in the first place.

spk_2: As with all of our interviews, we ran this by Marz and others from U. C. L. A. Before uploading as one way of trying to prevent harm. That being said, we anticipate we won't be perfect and thank you in advance for your criticism, knowledge and insight in whatever form it comes

spk_3: and with that please enjoy and learn from our interview with Mark Zona fraser. Hi margarita, thank you so much for being here. Welcome to the podcast.

spk_0: Thank you for allowing me to be a part of your excellence.

spk_2: We're so happy that you're

spk_0: here.

spk_3: We wanted to after seeing everything that you've been doing on twitter and having gotten to meet you before actually talk about your activism a little bit, we knew that we saw that you were doing a lot in the black lives matter space. we wanted to give you a platform to share whatever you wanted to share with our community. and hopefully others who picked this up and and can listen and then it really to me is central around one or two big questions. Um, the first is, what do you want folks to know about Black Lives Matter movement?

spk_0: Okay, well, first and foremost, I think the most important thing is to remember that this is a movement, not a moment, not a trend. And you will see those Black Lives Matter posts slowly fading off of your timeline. It's still going on, it's still happening. It's been happening. And you know, I would just really appreciate if people would stay knowing, just stay knowing and stay fighting for your, your black friends, your black family because it starts with you to change how things are being done in this country.

spk_3: I stay knowing.

spk_0: I don't know where I got that from. I think I took that from my friend Amanda Seales. Yeah, I did. Sorry Amanda,

spk_3: just name drop. Yeah, I think that that is a thing I've seen a lot is posts that are if Black Lives matters disappeared from your feed, you're following the wrong people or you know, why would you only post something right now and not two weeks from now, we, we intentionally just some degree didn't want to put this out or interview you right as everything was happening. because we, we, we want to continue the conversation

spk_2: because it shouldn't be reactionary.

spk_0: Um,

spk_2: you know, but that's how that's how so many things are, Everything's just reactionary and then as soon as it drops off the news radar radar, it's like,

spk_0: yep, sadly.

spk_3: Um, so for folks who are brand new to thinking about this, when you say that racism isn't anything new that these experiences anything new. What are some of the things that you're talking about there?

spk_0: Okay. So I love my friends, my team, everybody. But during the execution of George Floyd the murder. I I was getting a lot of text from pierce. Just say people haven't talked to in years. I'm just saying I'm with you. I'm by your side. I can't even imagine what you're going through. And I of course I responded thank you so much. And, but in my head I'm like, this is nothing new. You just see it now. You just acknowledging, acknowledging it now and I really, I really appreciated it. But I don't know, this is what I was raised to see. And this is what I was raised to fight and raised to be almost numb to because it happens so often. It's just the fact that finally attention is, is forced upon the public and you're forced to see what is happening.

spk_3: Yeah. And then still some people don't

spk_0: yeah,

spk_3: it seems what you're saying isn't part people responded to you and they met really well, but that their, their response wasn't sufficient. Yes. So

spk_2: how would what would you rather have people do than, you know, just text you and be I'm so sorry I'm with you. what is a better thing

spk_0: that people can do to be about it? You can talk about it as much as you want but be about it, you're in the house, it's a pandemic. You're on your phone post sign petitions. You don't have to donate but every cent helps these organizations and these go fund me's of families that need to afford funeral costs and health care. So honestly be about it. You can you can text me I appreciate the text and I'm glad that I was on your mind and and your black family was on your mind but you have to do your part and part of acknowledging your white privilege comes with using it. We're good.

spk_2: Absolutely

spk_0: something

spk_3: we talked about in our most recent episode was white people having those conversations with other white people rather than putting that labor back on you. the person who was experiencing the racism to to rely on for education. And it also sounds people weren't just you using you for education but also kind of to feel their own emotions just I feel gross about this. I'm really sorry to you in a way that doesn't help you

spk_2: know it doesn't help you and it's really more to almost absolve your own feelings

spk_0: which

spk_2: is not really a way to be supportive because it really is acknowledge we like, we have to acknowledge our white privilege and we have to use that in order to fight racism because ignore ignoring white privileges, just another part of the problem, The sense of guilt is normal, but people have

spk_0: to move past that have to move past like

spk_2: you feel guilt and then stop feeling sorry for yourself and do something about it.

spk_0: I know I was born black, I have no say over it. You you're if you're born white you have no say over it and you cannot take responsibility for things happening in this country before you were even born. But what you can do is take responsibility for your current self, educate yourself and teach that to your friends and your family, your Children because that is how we were going to fix this. Those people who this country is literally founded on racism, everything about it from the school systems to the star spangled banner and it's all racist and we have to undo all of that. So that starts with educating the youth, educating your kids and then they educate their kids and so on.

spk_2: Exactly.

spk_3: So, so one thing I want to do with this conversation is take stuff every institution is racist and break it down into a few things that people who really care about gymnastics might be able to understand because they're understanding it within the scope of gymnastics. Um, and so one question we had was as you've competed, domestically internationally. Um, what has it been for you to be in this black body and go to all these different places and how have you been treated as a black athlete?

spk_0: Well being black. The first thing you're taught when you're little is people will only see you for your skin color until you are able to actually meet those people personally. So I'm over here on tv and I started elite gymnastics, Old for my age. I started elite gymnastics when I was 15. So I'm already going through puberty and I'm next to these girls who are older than me and I look. So I would say, well as the comments would say thick and stocky and that didn't really sit next sit well, it didn't sit well with me because as soon as I met these people in person, they're like, oh, you're so small. I thought you were bigger on tv and then you says that

spk_2: God, I mean people say it, but you know, what is going through your head when you say,

spk_0: I don't even know, I'm just here to do flips and get a scholarship. My body, my gymnastics would always be classified with solely power. It would be from coaches. Even my Flora teens, you guys know I'm a dancer and I can do many different styles of dance, but I was, I would always get the techno robot people bought sharp movements flow, routine maybe I want to do swan lake, maybe I want to do phantom of the opera. But no, I can't because I can only gyrate and chuck tumbling apparently

spk_2: that's so

spk_3: I think that I'm really glad that you and thank you for sharing with us that, that that's the kind of comments that you heard about your body. Um, I don't want you to speak at anyone else's experience, but that's the same stuff we hear about simone constantly here bro oh she's so powerful, she's able to do stuff because she's start stocky is the word of,

spk_2: I heard that's such a bizarre thing to say

spk_3: and just so clearly racialized because it actually didn't describe your body accurately

spk_0: when I look back on those videos of myself, I look so thin and lean and cut and I thought I thought I was fat to be honest for Yeah, I really did and I'm like, wow, I look good, I wish I looked that now geez I lost some muscle mass and I'm kind of mad about it. I remember praying and praying to not be a muscular anymore. So boys would me and they would stop arm wrestling me and asking me how much I bench like

spk_4: I

spk_0: swear, but now and then I see these girls on instagram and they're so curvy, I'm like, oh my God what until I realized my body can't be bought it really can't you can't buy muscle and it's a shame that it took this long to realize how beautiful. Mhm. And strong my body is so I mean I love my I love myself so we'll get over it.

spk_3: I'm glad you're there now.

spk_0: Yeah better than better late than never.

spk_2: So do you feel you were treated or judged more fairly in the U. S. Or outside of the U.

spk_0: S. Honestly I couldn't tell you the arena was just as loud and the fans are just as engaging and the girls were just as nice. They didn't even speak speak english but we were rubbing each other's legs out after floor because yeah me and Angelina milking nova. Oh my goodness the sweetest she didn't she's probably said three words to me in english but she was so sweet.

spk_3: Can

spk_0: confirm part

spk_3: of why I wanted to ask that is because I've seen some folks talk about how where they're actual deductions that are taken because you're black that toe point that judges are taught to see what white people's feet look like

spk_0: oh my goodness my whole career I don't have the best whole point in the world but I promise you I'm trying to point of I

spk_2: Mean I believe I am 100% believe that

spk_3: that there's

spk_2: bias.

spk_0: Yeah there's

spk_2: bias. It's the I mean I assume that it's a similar bias that translates into the dance community where black people being told they can't be ballerinas yeah misty copeland and you're constantly told that you don't have the right body

spk_0: type which is just insane. Yeah and it's reflected in the material. the pointe shoes in the stock gangs, they don't even match this, they don't have options for people of color at all.

spk_2: She literally talked about having to die like die the modesty plates and stuff for her costumes.

spk_3: Did you ever have an issue with not being provided an option that actually matches your skin tone where everybody else did

spk_0: leotards with mesh right leotards with mesh tan underwear, tan bras, tan wrist guards.

spk_2: it cannot be that difficult to have

spk_0: multiple colors. It's not but people don't care. People care, they don't care. I would say some a lot of companies have stepped up the Sylvia P Do you guys remember my championships leotard with the one arm tiger cut beautiful job. They send us a picture picture of your skin and we'll match it and beautiful.

spk_3: Ah that's awesome. Yeah.

spk_2: So we saw a lot of universities make statements about black lives matter immediately after many of the events mostly George Floyd but even after more of the murders and that kind of thing have been happening. And so what do you think makes a university coach or program statement on black lives black lives matter good and what makes it bad? what qualities I guess

spk_0: qualities that would make a statement bad would just be we see you, we hear you were listening, insert them. Okay quote here hashtag Black lives matter. Yeah wrong and nice try it a good statement. It might look more, it will start with an apology and you it should be a general apology but these institutions I guess it's too broad but I would say coaches should reach out to gymnasts that felt they were mistreated. So it starts with an apology and then it starts with action. What are you gonna do to change? What are you gonna do to make in a safe environment? And if racial injustices do occur within your team, what consequences will there be or are you just gonna sweep it under the rug again? Mhm And that's how you make a statement, I'm sorry that's sincere, this is what we're gonna do, this is how we're going to do it and we will continue to learn

spk_3: and actually doing the things

spk_0: actually doing the things and saying that you're going to do them so people can hold you accountable. Yeah.

spk_3: So I think the Gymternet has kind of taken these statements and considered the timing and the sincerity and also the context of whether or not people have spoken up recently regarding that school and I think some people kind of this internal or in some cases written list of places to shame places who are doing it well. and so this is me asking you to shame anybody. but we've noticed that black athletes tend to gravitate towards the same handful of institutions and those institutions had the better statements. so as you were going through the recruiting process and all of that, how did you know which places we're going to be safer for you?

spk_0: Okay well I just want to start with. It's all in the recruiting because you can't it's all in the recruiting If these schools want to recruit in the same 10 club gens that are predominantly white and what is your team going to look like? And my my top two schools for as long as I can remember we're schools in the south and I went to go visit and everyone looked the same and I'm not talking about the girls on the team of talking about people walking around the campus. The girls all look the same, same hairstyle, same clothes and I was kind of scared right? So I was going to commit. My mind was made up. I don't know how but eventually I've I visited U. C. L. A. You know what things just happen in your life and you don't you can't remember it was just yeah so as soon as I stepped off the plane, L A X. I was like, yeah, I'm sold. So, so also also and when I look at colleges, I don't look for the gymnastics because side note gymnastics doesn't last forever in case some of you did this listening didn't know. But I want to be in communications and broadcasting and public speaking in L. A. Are you kidding me? U. C. L. A. Are you serious? And then the girls on top of that was a diverse environment and I was like, I'll take it. But it comes down to the recruiting. You you coaches have the choice of visiting different areas, different cities and choosing gymnasts that if their outside of your comfort zone than they are. But if the gymnastics is good recruit them.

spk_3: Yeah. Yeah. It goes. I think beyond go to the right jim's you could go to the gym and still not see that athlete or choose to not care. Yeah. About the athletes. It's so gross.

spk_2: It is super gross.

spk_0: Yeah. Mm

spk_3: hmm. So when I saw you start speaking out, I was worried for

spk_0: you. Was

spk_2: I

spk_3: how has it been?

spk_0: It's been fine. It's been completely fine. And I wish people would say something to me about it. I wish you would.

spk_2: Yeah. When you started, you know, when you started speaking out, I was like, this is good. But this is also like, could this be really bad in the sense for you? And it was, there was a bit of a panic I think.

spk_0: Well there is definitely again, if I spoke that six months ago. Yeah, no way. But if I were to look back on this moment after my career and see that nothing, nothing has changed. I would have blamed it on myself because I see, I see these athletes with these huge platforms not saying anything. Mm hmm. Oh, I'll say something. And then I wouldn't, what are people gonna do? Tell me to delete the tweet? It's already out. Um, take away my scholarship. I don't know. I wish you would judge my scores. Go ahead. And I still look cute and when I get to nationals, you you have no choice but to judge me fairly, that's all I have to say and respect, respected it respectfully. I reached out to schools personally and privately and I did not call out one school, I didn't, I didn't call out a school because in the long run you don't want to jeopardize the future of the girls. But it's these adults that are held accountable.

spk_3: Are there things that coaches or staff or other people have done to actively show support that might be helpful for folks to here. So they could do the same. Um, has saying nothing been sufficient or or would it make more sense for folks be reaching out to you and affirming that you're doing a good thing.

spk_0: Yes. Well I know I'm doing a good thing so people can tell me I'm proud of you and I appreciate it. But I'm, I'm not doing this, I'm doing this for the long run and I'm doing this so that when my baby sister gets to college, she's treated with respect. And when my baby brother and my other baby sister gets to college, they're treated with respect and they have equal opportunity because my family is so talented and beautiful and I just want the best for them. And my team has, we've had meetings, we have hard talks. I've offered for my teammates to call me individually with any questions they might haven't, they've taken the time to do so. And we're watching netflix series together and reading books and these things even make me cry and make me feel uncomfortable because even though I'm black, I have parents that have protected me and they had me shy from, from some things. And when you see such raw productions of films that are so true, the incarceration system with black men and that's happening today, still, it's happening right now and that that hits you different, especially when those are people that look your dad and look your brother and your uncle. Um, so I would just appreciate it for other schools to follow the example of educating themselves and having those hard discussions together. You don't need a post about it, You don't need to brag about it? Just do it and you're allowed to feel uncomfortable. You're allowed to feel awkward but just do it and I promise you you will feel so much better.

spk_3: We're gonna post, we're gonna share in the episode description some petitions and some articles and resources before and we shared in our last episode some of things that we're reading and watching what are some of the things that your team has been reading and watching that other folks might want to take you up on

spk_0: netflix has been putting out some gorgeous documentaries and movies. You guys aren't doing anything right now, you should be in the house in the house, bored in the house, bored bored in the house and I'm in the house bored watch some netflix and educate yourself when you're doing so. And you could read books, just don't harass your black friends to say what should I watch? You know, just figure it out. We had to figure out our true history ourselves so you can, you know, watch a netflix movie without my input.

spk_2: Also google exists and how many articles and lists recently have been up for literally been white people, you need to read these things and watch these things you don't need to be harassing your black

spk_0: friends? Yeah, I mean just just do it, please, please

spk_3: what else that we haven't talked about yet. Do you want folks to know about your experiences as a black gymnast?

spk_0: Okay, so my experiences as a black gymnast, it is a wonderful thing in the black community that you need to work twice as hard to get half as far. And that comes with emotional pain and it comes with sacrifice and everyone goes through emotional pain, everyone goes through sacrifice bi Just know that even though I'm black, I'm still a human being and I also worked very hard to get where you are. And when you see black excellence, when you see a girl with the Farro, when you see a girl in dreads, when you see some, when you, when you're listening to your favorite rap song by your black artists pay it some respect because if you can, if you can share for your favorite NFL team, that's a majority of black athletes and when your favorite artists are all black and you claim that you have a black best friend fight, fight for them, please don't be silent. And I'm not saying you need to write a paragraph and I'm not saying you need to email the Inquirer and son, just just be there for them please. And it's all love, it's all love over here and we're going to fight for change together as one.

spk_3: Okay, so last thing is our intro music the entire time that we've had this podcast has been your 2019 floor music because it is the only thing that we could think of that is music and gay and gymnastics.

spk_0: Yeah, wow and I provided that for you. You did,

spk_3: so thank you and also tell us everything everything about that, the whole thing, so I, I super appreciated that whenever you get asked about this routine, you would give credit to black trans women and black queer people and but since this is the queer space, is there anything else more about creating that routine that you haven't gotten to share before?

spk_0: Okay, so I, I knew I wanted to do evoking since park, it's, I have videos of me in the park kids dance room just doing dips and spins and twirls nobody's business and I found them dada and I sent it to Miss Bowel and she was like, oh someone already did this, but you can still do it. I said okay, and I remember I studied, I studied, I watched paris is burning, I legit studied and I'm like, I want to get these moves down the names down, I want to make sure I do this right, and I hope I did it right and I got some feedback and I changed things and when I watched the routine because people think I'm narcissistic because I to watch my routines a lot when really, that's how I get better and I watched, I watched the audience and the audience reaction and I'm oh I should have waked their, oh that person that, I'm gonna keep that in and it's the, the best routine I've ever done. It was my favorite routine it was mostly freestyle, oh is this cute? Yeah, let's keep it, oh is this cute? Yeah, let's keep it and I never did it the same twice and oh wow, kevin kevin ambiance saw it and Naomi maldonado saw it and all these amazing people saw it and they liked it and I'm glad other people it, should I do it again? Should I do it again?

spk_2: Bring it back?

spk_3: Of course it can bring

spk_2: it back for the pride meet

spk_0: okay,

spk_2: I'm serious, space, I can do it,

spk_3: that's the movie. I think you said that when the primary happened were you should switch back to the other forward

spk_0: just for today, I can't, I'll totally do that. Would that be confusing? No, not for me,

spk_3: I did super appreciate the, especially using the correct terminology and the thing that I noticed was over the course of the season, anyone who was commentating started to learn the terminology to and used the correct stuff they stopped calling it a death drop and started calling it a dip

spk_0: when you yell at people, it doesn't work, but in interviews I would purposely say that dip repeatedly and people picked it up and I'm oh thank goodness thank goodness because I'm not trying to make anybody mad no ma'am, no

spk_3: it's so good and and part of so our whole starting this podcast was we wanted there to be a space to have LGBTQ+ and other social justice focused conversations within gymnastics because half the people who care about gymnastics are gay, so why are we not why are we not having those conversations? and at the time we didn't know of any openly LGBTQ+ athletes in women's gymnastics and so when that routine happened for me, it was the first time that I ever saw anybody through any gymnastics medium acknowledge my community, the trans community and so that was just really special and I appreciate

spk_0: it, thank you, I mean I never expected the routine to be so impactful wow, thank you, I put a lot of, a lot of hard work, I thought into it and I'm wow and I never expected it to be so meaningful to people,

spk_3: it shows you know the hard work showed and and it would have been super meaningful if it wasn't the only thing we had at the time, but it was the only thing we had at the time and I think pre watching all of y'all embrace Kaly there was this little glimmer for fans, even if oh this team is thinking about this community or at least Mark is thinking about this community and talking about it and not being ashamed and not trying to hide the fact that this is dance route and queerness

spk_0: and um

spk_3: it was just great, is there anything just because our audience is so primarily LGBTQ+ audience or folks who are caring about these issues, Is there anything that you want to share or say about what Ally Ship has looked for you in terms of having queer focus on your team,

spk_0: it's, it's not complicated, treat everyone with love and respect everyone no matter what they look like, no matter no matter who they love, that's none of your business and it's not, you can't judge, it comes down to treating everyone with love and respect and that shouldn't be hard and if that's hard for you then you need to reevaluate your life honestly and the girls on my team, those are my sisters, I'm there for them, no matter what. If a random stranger were to come up to me were to come up to me, I would be there for them too. I mean it's just a matter of being a decent human being and the moral of the story is if you want to be a change, it's so cliche, If you want to be changed, you have to be that change, it's not hard at all treat people with respect and if they say I am this okay. And if they say, I don't being called this, okay. And I've even, I always used my pronouns when I'm introducing myself and I always ask the other person and people will be like, oh, why did you, why did you do that? I'm like, well you're gonna have to learn it pretty soon too.

spk_3: Yeah, that's a really important work, the normalizing that for other people. I think it's really important for not only folks to see the people on your team coming out, but also to see the support that you all showed. I think that's just as powerful as important as the folks who I have actually come out

spk_0: strong, strong people. Absolutely. But you know, the hardest thing in the world is it's to be yourself willingly.

spk_3: So for folks who aren't already, who want to have more of you in their lives, what are the ways that people can find you on the internet?

spk_0: Okay. You can find me on instagram at Mark Zita, M A R G Z E T T A Twitter it is also my name and Youtube. It's also my name and I can't think of anything else, but if you just type my name into google, you can find a lot of things. All sorts of things. We'll also put links at the bottom

spk_2: if you can't remember if you, if you are listening to this and you suddenly decide, you can't remember who we're talking to. It's at the bottom and you should go click it

spk_0: if you want. Please

spk_3: Only if you're gonna be nice.

spk_0: Yeah, only I don't people no meanness here.

spk_3: Very true. We appreciate you so, so so much. Thank you so much for taking the time to talk to us. I know it's not necessarily easy stuff to talk about. So we are super appreciative of your time.

spk_0: Thank you for having me. I appreciate you guys too. Honestly, I really do. Thank you for doing this and providing this platform and spreading your messages. Thanks. That's that's seriously yeah.

spk_2: Thank you for listening to our interview with Mark's etta fraser. We hope you enjoyed listening to it as much as we enjoyed recording it. We'll have links to additional resources as well as socials in our episode description. So please be sure to check those out. Thank you

spk_0: bi

spk_4: for too long. We've lived in a world of canceled and delayed no more. Those plans you've been making their on thanks to on go. The number one ranked at home rapid Covid 19 test. So that vacation where you get to swim with the pigs. It's on your friend's wedding that was pushed back four times. It's on the roar of the stadium. It's on to on go. Covid 19. Test results in minutes on go is available at let's on go dot com slash radio and amazon this product has been authorized by the FDA during the public health emergency only and only for the detection of proteins from SARS COv two not other viruses. The claim number one ranked is supported by e c R. I's usability evaluation conducted in december 2021

spk_5: cancer is the beginning. And while it can be hard to see past the diagnosis, we're here to help you focus on the future beyond treatment filled with new perspectives, unknown strength and possibilities that once seemed impossible. A wider world stands before you because cancer is the beginning. This is the belief we share to give you your best chance forward. Carmen is Cancer Institute your best chance.

