Episode 37 - Catching Up with Kalyany Steele & Emma Andres

Emma: There weren't queer gymnasts, like I just didn't know of any out, like, my whole life it wasn't even an option to me, I just had never representation, it wasn't there

*****

Kino: Hello welcome to Half In Half Out, he only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast. I'm Kino and we're back today with an interview/conversation/catchup session with Kalyany Steele and Emma Andres from UCLA. Hopefully you know who those two bisexual icons are already but if you don't I highly suggest going back and listening to Kaly's and Emma's separate interviews but that's what we're giving you today. We actually recorded this episode back in early July before the olympics, so there will be some conversations about the olympics where the olympics has not happened yet. We also got some updates at the time on some injuries from Emma and Kaly and that information may have changed but we haven't heard otherwise. I think you'll really enjoy this interview. We really enjoyed having both of them on again. And of course if you haven't listened to both of their individual interviews, I highly suggest it but I'm sure most of you have. Blake and I would also like to thank you for all of your patience. We are at a time in our own personal jobs where it's a very busy time of year and we are trying to get back on a more regular update schedule so you should plan to hear from us every other Monday, but if you don't please know that it's because we're trying to balance a podcast and real life jobs so without any further ado here, Kaly and Emma.

Blake: How have you been, how's summer been?

Emma: My summer's been good. I got back, I moved back home like around finals week and then Mia came up to visit my family and she met them for the first time, which was really cool. Yeah and the rest of the summer, I've just been working doing physical therapy and school.

Kino: What are you taking right now?

Emma: I'm taking Geo7, it's just like a like mapping class and like information systems.

Kino: That actually sounds really interesting. I'm such a nerd.

Emma: Yeah, it's a, it's an interesting class.

Blake: What's the, what's the working?

Emma: I coached at my old club gym.

Kino: Oh

Emma: it's really fun.

Kino: So like the little tiny gymnasts?

Emma: Yeah, and like the team

Kino: fancy

Blake: I won't ask you who you like the best, so you don't have to say, but like I've been coaching for a month now and I have my favorites, but coaching is coaching, it's still awesome. Kaly what have you been up to?

Kaly: My summer's been pretty chill. Honestly, I've just been hanging out with my friends and family, which has been really nice. I went to Denver Pride last week and that was, that was fun.

Kino: Oh that sounds so fun.

Kaly: Yeah, And then I'm actually in Illinois right now, visiting my grandparents.

Kino: Oh that's cool, that's close to us kind of,

Blake: How was Pride?

Kino: Yeah

Kaly: It was fun. It was like, it was a little strange because it was still a little bit covid-y

Blake: Yeah

Kino: I believe it.

Kaly: There was a huge line to get into this compact space outside with just a few booths with some free stuff. But the atmosphere was still good. It was really just a bunch of LGBTQ+ people hyping each other up which is always a good time.

Kino: That's so fun.

Blake: Have you guys been like watching gymnastics at all?

Emma: A bit, Yeah

Kaly: a little bit.

Kino: How has that been?

Blake: I've been watching everything. A little bit has probably been healthier.

Kino: Yeah.

Blake: What have you guys seen?

Kaly: Um I haven't seen like all of the trials. I've seen like a lot of different routines from there but I haven't gotten to watching the whole thing but I think I know the important parts like who made the team and stuff

Kino: Yeah, yeah honestly sometimes it's like, yeah I've seen the important routines from this meet, do I really need to go watch the entire thing? I do get that

Blake: I spent so much, we spent so much of our lives being frustrated

Kino: Yes, being frustrated. I even said to Blake, I'm so ready to go back to watching NCAA Gymnastics where the controversy is did this person deserves the 10 they got or should they have gotten a 10, rather than the entire state of gymnastics being controversial, so I'm really excited. Like let's start your season sooner than later.

Blake: Are you excited? Junior year, What's happening? What are you excited for?

Emma: I'm really excited for junior year. I think the first two years were more like adjusting periods and getting used to like how the team is and getting used to being at UCLA, taking care of yourself and now it's like, hopefully we've got that down and now we can help each other. We're gonna be living together next year. So that'll be fun.

Kino: That's exciting.

Emma: Yeah, I'm really excited to have another season with fans again and

Blake: oh yeah!

Emma: yeah

Blake: Oh, and again, we're saving up money trying to get to Pride meets. Yeah, y'all are the expensive ones.

Kino: Yeah. You guys are the expensive

Blake: Buy a lot of T-shirts, because we want to go

Kino: Honestly, if you guys had to meet out here again, we'd automatically just go, I think the last time other than regionals that UCLA had a meet out here was Ohio State, inexplicably. And I couldn't go.

Blake: That's a weird one.

Kino: It was weird. I'm not saying it wasn't weird

Blake: So if y'all could make that happen, decide where you go. It'll be nice to be able to actually travel again and not have it be a nightmare

Kaly: oh my God, yeah. Not have like 50 masks and shields on our faces, that'll be good

Emma: We had like, dents in our foreheads

Kino: Oh my God. Yeah, where was the farthest you guys went last year?

Kaly: Mm hmm

Emma: I'm not. I know we went to, Utah?

Blake: I wanna say like Utah or Washington?

Kaly: Yeah.

Emma: One of those two

Blake: But it was all in-conference

Kino: Yeah.

Blake: And I guess there's no like time zone adjusting. So there's like 82 million freshman coming to UCLA This year. Do you guys know any of them? Do you have any friends coming or anything?

Kaly: Yeah. We've met all of them, I'm pretty sure. And a couple of them I've known for a while just from doing elite and like seeing the camps and meets. So yeah

Emma: We met the incoming freshmen on official, or at least I did, on like official visits and visiting.

Kino: Okay.

Emma: But the other freshmen, I don't know. I don't know anyone.

Kino: Yeah. You guys have a massive freshman class coming in.

Blake: It's gonna be so good

Kino: There are literally, 5 or 6? Six I think.

Blake: You're loud again

Kino: Oh, sorry. That was just my normal voice getting really screechy. Six, that's so many. I mean everybody, ou only had three last year?

Kaly: Yeah.

Blake: Yeah. Last year was just weird. Anyways.

Kino: Well, yeah, because everybody was like, everything got delayed. I mean, I knew somebody who was going to Cal as just a student, not an athlete who like stayed home. He's like I'm not going to move to California in the middle of COVID.

Blake: Yeah.

Kino: And he did his first year at cal at home

Blake: They had a lot of that, I had a student who in the middle of the year just like went back to Hawaii.

Kino: Like from Hawaii?

Blake: Yeah he was from Hawaii. He moved to Michigan and then when it got cold he just went back to Hawaii and never came back. The last season was just weird, everybody couldn't travel, there were injuries. There's also stuff I know like Emma you mentioned being in PT. How do you guys feel with gymnastics with injuries? All of that, how are you doing?

Kaly: We're hanging in there. Yeah for me it was it was a rough season of injuries I would say. But like everything is pretty much better except for like my ankle I'm dealing with. So. Yeah.

Kino: Yeah, at least I guess you don't really mostly need your ankles on bars except for, you know, the landing part. It always does freak me out when it's like oh you're limited to bars but you have an ankle injury and like you still have to land, I assume it hurts.

Kaly: Uh Yeah but it's ok, it's worth it.

Kino: Yeah, it is really like the only event that you can be like well I guess I'm just gonna go and land that one time and that's fine.

Blake: Emma, how are you doing?

Emma: I found out like in the fall of sophomore year that I had a tear in my labrum in my hip, so this season was really rough. I was competing on the tear.

Kino: Oh my gosh

Emma: Then I had surgery like eight weeks ago, so I'm in recovery now.

Kino: Do you feel like things are going well post surgery, at least kind of?

Emma: Yeah, yeah, it's it's a little bit hard for me to tell the difference between bad pain and good pain, like I'm just working through it

Kino: Right, that makes sense.

Emma: Yeah, but it's been going well, I've been recovering pretty fast

Kino: That's good. That's good. Oh, that sounds really painful. Just like, no, actually all injuries sound painful, but like, particularly competing on the hip and all. No.

Blake: That's a bummer.

Kino: It is a bummer.

Blake: Are you guys just at your, well, Kaly is all over the place, are you just at home gyms though most of the time.

Kaly: Yeah

Blake: I was like, yeah, you work there. So that is also something I have found it incredibly hard now to like work out at the gym now that I work there, especially if I try to do it after I've worked, I'm just like, I'm tired and I'm hot and I don't want to do this anymore.

Kino: I believe it. So obviously we didn't see you a ton in lineups this past year because you're both injured and obviously we want you to recover and all of those things. We did see a little of both of you and I think we probably saw a little more Emma, but you know, we were sad both ways. But providing that you're healthy, what lineups are you looking forward to next year? Or is that too far ahead to think?

Kaly: I think it'd be cool to compete beam and possibly vault provided my ankle cooperates but vault and bars were my best events. So I think that would be neat if I could do that.

Kino: Yes. What vault would you train then or like what vault have you trained in the past?

Kaly: Well, I competed a double full for a few years.

Kino: Mm hmm.

Kaly: I think it might be nice to learn a 1.5 because the landing is a bit like, I don't know ,easier on on your feet. So yeah, maybe I would do a 1.5.

Kino: We would love to see it. Kalyany Steele bringing the 10.0 start values to the vault lineup.

Blake: Alright, Emma. How about you?

Emma: I'm always looking forward to floor, hoping to stay in again this year. I want to make everything, I want to make every line up, but I guess I'm hoping this year, like I really want to be in vault lineup as well. I feel like I was really close all of last year and it made me just want it that much more like I just wanted to be in so bad. So I'm really looking forward to that this year. And I do want to, yeah, I mean I want to make it on everything, but I think most realistically I'm looking forward to floor and hopefully vault

Kino: What vault were you training?

Emma: Just a full

Kino: We also love fulls

Emma: Yeah

Kino: I will be supportive of whatever you do

Blake: It's all impossible to me

Kino: Look, every lineup needs, like I always talk about Pulla, how her full is so reliable and I always get so angry because I feel like it's underscored, but that's just me personally. You need those sturdy fulls in your lineup, you really do. Yeah.

Blake: Oh, somebody asked if you had any ideas what you were doing for floor music or a theme this year.

Emma: Yeah, I don't know. I do not know. I haven't really started looking for music still. I need to do that, yeah, I have no idea.

Blake: Well, people will probably tell you now, I'm sure you'll get many ideas.

Kino: They're going to give you so many ideas, reject most of them.

Emma: I'm open to any ideas or suggestions?

Kino: You invited so many people into your career right now

Emma: Maybe I'll choose one of their ideas

Kino: They would be so honored. So you're juniors now almost, I guess technically. I mean you're in school. Emma so you, I guess you kind of already are a junior. So how do you, do you plan to step up as team leaders now that you're juniors like, you guys are both like leading the pride meet, okay? Just by like being there and being amazing

Blake: And being bold enough to get up like that and sing and play instruments in front of people

Kino: Oh my gosh, that video like almost brought me to tears.

Kaly: Thank you

Kino: I didn't know it was coming honestly, Blake didn't tell me. And so Blake got my reaction, I think it's recorded somewhere and it was just, it was a lot of silence, which is not something that is me generally, there's a lot of silence and me just like squealing. But do you think it's going to be different in like the leadership way now that you're juniors?

Kaly: I definitely wanna step up as a leader and I want to be a person that people come to for advice or whatever because I think since we're juniors now we're in a new position where we've sort of been around the block I guess, and we know what we're doing a little bit more, like we know how things work. So I definitely want to be there to help the freshman or like whoever with anything they might be going through.

Kino: They should all come to you ask Kaly all your questions. Maybe not all of them, but. What about you Emma?

Emma: Yeah, I feel the same way. I'm definitely looking forward to being more of a leader on this team this year. Yeah, same kind of thing. Like just we've been through it at this point, like we've been through two years at UCLA So we kind of, you know what's going on at this point. And like I think we'll just be able to like reach out and help the underclassmen and just, I don't know, I'm excited to speak up more because I feel like I was a little bit quiet my first two years.

Blake: I think people will be very excited to hear that.

Kino: Yeah. I also think that's really normal to be quiet your first time, and even the first couple of years that you're somewhere, to get comfortable. I'm that way too in a sense, like I'm very quiet in a new environment and then as soon as I'm comfortable, I'm just like, I'm excited. Yeah, like you've observed two years you've been through like a normal season and a crazy season. Well actually excuse me, you've been through too crazy seasons because one got cut short. I apologize. You've been through like part of a normal season and

Blake: oh my god you have to get a regular season this year

Kino: You need a regular season by the time you're seniors, you need a regular season.

Kaly: I agree

Emma: I hope we get one

Blake: Oh God, I can't, that's another weird year, so this year will also be the first year that you're both going into the season, both out as like awesome, wonderful bi queer people. How does it feel going into this year? Looking forward to stuff like Pride meet? How are you feeling?

Emma: I'm feeling really excited. I just feel, I know every year that I've been on the team, I've become more like myself and I feel like because I'm out already went through all of that last year, I feel comfortable with myself and the team and I'm more open, so I'm yeah, I'm really excited for that, like just feeling comfortable automatically and then yeah, I'm super excited for the Pride meet. I didn't get to go to a Pride this year and I was so sad about it. I just couldn't get to one, but I can't wait to go celebrate and be out.

Blake: I'm so excited. How about you Kaly?

Kaly: I'm really excited and it's cool that I can be able to share this excitement with Emma, I think that's super cool and special, but yeah, I'm very excited. The pride meet I think we were talking about how it's going to be possibly bigger than last year, so that'll be exciting.

Emma: Yeah, we were saying we're going to go extra big this year because of our COVID one

Kaly: I love it.

Emma: It'll be our first, our first Pride meet together.

Kaly: Yeah!

Kino: I love that for both of you so much.

Blake: It's just so cool. It's gonna be cool. Like this is gonna be the first season where we're going into any season with any team where we as a podcast exist and where we also have two openly queer people on the same team

Kino: Yeah, I think we've only talked to one other person who's had experienced competing with another out person on their team, and I just really love that you guys get to do that and you're juniors so it's like the overlap is complete, although it'll be extra sad when you both graduate and then you'll both be gone and we'll just cry.

Blake: Okay. We had this really cool question from Anna on twitter and this is how it was phrased. So I'm going to read it this way.

"You're both icons for young queer kids in gymnastics. How would an openly queer female athlete competing unapologetically have impacted you as a kid?"

That's all their words.

Kaly: It would have been nice

Emma: What did you say? It would have been nice?

Kaly: Yeah

Emma: I loved that. That question. That was very sweet. Yeah, it would have been nice. I agree. I didn't even, there weren't queer gymnasts, like I just didn't know of any out my whole life. It wasn't even an option to me like I just had never representation wasn't there. So I think it would be really exciting and cool

Kaly: Yeah, or like at me at least make the coming out experience less scary maybe not feel so major like this kind of thing doesn't happen in the sport

Emma: Right

Blake: Right? Like it is a very big difference I think and I think we've had separate conversation with you about this, but Kaly was very much in the first five ever and then by the time like within like a year, by the time we get to Emma we had like a dozen and it's just like that exponential impact, it's been so cool to just see that kind of spread and I don't think any of its unrelated, you know, like I don't think that you can separate any of those experiences and so it's just been really cool even for like, very much same for me, like I work in a gym as an openly trans person and like my staff thing on the wall says, my favorite show is Rupaul's Drag Race and has a Laverne Cox quote, like that blows my mind and I'm not the only queer person who works there and I've known that the whole time. I don't know, it just, it just hurts my brain

Kino: I just think that all of you, like all of the gymnasts, like the out ones and the ones who aren't out yet, you know and who are still working towards that, I think you are changing the culture of gymnastics and I think we're going to see the impact of this for years to come and I just think that's so cool that it's really just kind of exploded in the last year and a half or so because it's not like, we always say, it's not the queer people in gymnastics, it's not like they didn't exist but now people feel more comfortable to  be out because you know there are, who knows how many queer people were on gymnastics teams in the past and we just didn't know

Blake: Kaly I'm sure you know @KalysBars on twitter

Kaly: yeah

Blake: they wanted to know how and when did you come out to each other? I think we asked you both separately but since you're both here

Kino: and I wasn't there for one of them

Kaly: so for me it was like summer session freshman year and I think it was in my dorm room and I had a crush on someone who was like a female and I wanted to tell Emma like all the tea about it, so I was just like uh I'm bi and also this person is really pretty uh and that was, that was it

Kino: Mhm I love that,

Blake: how is like the Kaly coming out thing for you, Emma?

Emma: Yeah, it was, I'm trying to think, I mean I was just like super, I was just really happy that she told me and I was really happy for her and I just wanted to be super, I just, I don't know, I was just so happy for her and it was, yeah it was interesting for me because I wasn't out at that time, but I just knew that wasn't, I wasn't ready and that the time would come for me and that was just her time and, yeah I was just happy for her

Blake: And then, your turn

Emma: Oh my gosh, Yeah, so I don't know why, but I was a little nervous to come out to Kaly, I think just because it was like, you know she had come out to me and I hadn't said anything and it felt like I should have told her by now, you know? So I was like, hyping myself up to, I don't know if you know, I was like hyping up to tell her for like a week or a week and a half and every time I would just be like, just say it! just say it! and I was like no I can't. I don't know how.

And then this one time I was walking her back to her dorm, I think. Yeah. And right as she was about split paths I was like, hey, you know, Mia, on soccer? And I said like, we're talking and I liked her and ... yeah. And that was how it came out. I guess that was like my way of doing it. Like the easiest way possible.

Blake: Like the most relatable thing I've ever heard. I just, oh my God, you just unlocked a memory that I did the exact same.

Kino: the door knob coming out

Blake: Or had that done to me, I forget which. But I was just like, oh my God, you just took me back to college so hard. I don't think anybody talks about that. Like the anxiety of, that still happens in that way of coming out as a continual process thing, It still can be really anxiety provoking to come out to people who you know are the same thing or you know are also queer people

It doesn't necessarily make it not, like there are these dynamics. Like, oh, it feels weird now because I didn't say anything. Is this person going to read into why I didn't say something? But we've all also been through the journey so we know that people just need time, but I'm glad that you're actually talking about that because I think it is super relatable. I think a lot of people don't know that there are people who feel that anxiety who are also gymnasts or people who can get up and dance in front of people or whatever. Like I'm glad that you said that.

Kino: And like the experience of you're not sure if a specific person knows but you think they figured it out but then you still have to confirm it with them. I had to do that recently and I was like, wait, you know this right? And they were like yeah, I kind of guessed and I was like okay, good.

Blake: It's like, oh my God, no, it can be, it can make it worse sometimes.

Kino: Yeah it can

Blake: Very relatable

Kino: I guess the follow up question then, do you think that being in the same situation, like the same sport as openly bi gymnasts has strengthened your friendship?

Kaly: Yeah, I think so. Like we were really good friends before we knew about each other's situations. But this just, I think bonded us together even more. It was just another thing we had in common and it's been nice to have someone to talk to you about bi stuff or whatever. Someone who gets it

Kino: Bi struggle.

Kaly: Yeah.

Emma: Yeah, I definitely agree. I think we were already close before and this was just another thing to bring us closer, and sharing similar experiences and get to talk about them together. It's fun

Blake: All three of you can chime into this. A couple of people have asked us, specifically bi people asked us, what some of those bi experiences has been that you all have gotten to process with each other? To the extent that you're comfortable sharing with the world, you know? But like what are some of those like, bi things that other people might not understand or know about?

Emma: I think one of the, one of the big things about being bi for me, that it made my coming out experience, like first of all delayed and second of all challenging, was being bi. Because the norm is definitely to be heterosexual, so having an attraction to males and, it was just in my head, I was like, oh, so I'm straight. It just wasn't even like a thought, you know? But it was like, if it had been a thought, I would have been like, oh, but I just, I really wasn't, yeah.

It made me feel like I was already automatically straight because I had an attraction to males and I didn't explore the other side of my sexuality because it's not a norm. And I, yeah, That was like one thing

Kaly: Yeah. I haven't had a lot of like personal experiences with any of these challenges. But I guess one thing that I would kind of be worried about is like if I were to date a guy, maybe I'll get accused of like my bisexuality being like a phase or maybe I was faking it for attention or something. Because these are real things that people say to bi people and I have to deal with all the time. So that's like one thing I think about

Kino: the stuff that people say to buy people sometimes is just unreal. People really think that they get to have a very specific opinion about bisexuality and it's, I haven't experienced, I've experienced some of the things that people say, but it's just so wild what people think they can get away with saying. and I feel like it's just a weird part of the bi experience.

Emma: Mm hmm. Yeah. I definitely feel like people, have a place to have an opinion on bi people's sexualities when it, you don't have a place like that. That's my place and that's my decision and you don't get to tell me what, yeah. I don't know. There's just so many people that I feel like invalidate bisexuality as a sexuality and it is valid and they don't have the right to tell people that it's not.

Kino: I was once on a date with another bi person and then they started like policing my bisexuality on the date. This is one of the first dates I had ever been on with a woman and I was just like wait, what is happening? I felt it was this weird gatekeeping thing, I felt like on the date that I wasn't bi enough on the date, it was a really weird experience. I was like oh this is odd, I'm uncomfortable, can I leave and never come back? Yeah.

Blake: I find it interesting to Kaly, that you mentioned if you date a guy, are people are going to accuse you of faking the bisexuality, because I do think it's interesting. It's not that it doesn't happen also when you're dating women, but it's just like different in a way that both are shitty all the time but it is totally different, like have people accused either of you like, oh you're like dating a girl so you're gay or are people seemingly just more open to you being a bi person and really, it's in relation to men when people start to get weird because misogyny is a thing

Kaly: Right, I mean it is, I feel, easier for a person to just assume that I am only into women if I'm with a woman. And the bisexuality thing doesn't always cross people's minds because it's just easier to go to that, but I don't know

Blake: and it's like a visible queer marker happening. it's not like people are questioning whether or not you should be in queer spaces and it's only if you date a guy that I think people are going to question you being in queer spaces.

Kino: Right

Blake: And I think it also just happens to fem people but then if you're in a relationship with a woman or a person people think as a woman or whatever, that it can give you that clout in those spaces for your necessarily getting all the biphobic stuff from the queer people.

Kino: It is really interesting because I do sometimes see, I mean not sometimes, you do see a lot where people are like, super supportive of you being bi if you're in a relationship with a woman, but as soon as you start dating a man, it's like hmm Like weirdly not supportive anymore? And it's weird, what is what about the prefix bi do you not understand? Right?

Emma: Right. That's that's in the name. Like in the definition of being bisexual

Kino: It's literally like, what did you think that that meant? I always say that I get really frustrated because people are like bisexuality is a stepping stone sexuality and I'm like no. it's. not. That doesn't mean you can't identify as bi and then later identify as a lesbian or something like that, that's totally okay, that is not what I'm saying here. But that doesn't mean that's always everybody, some people are just bi and that's okay. Don't you ever want to scream that at people? Sometimes I do.

Blake: We had some conversations with people who are commentators, about what is appropriate when we talk about people, like as gymnasts. We talked about the example of people always mentioning Simone, Morgan Hurd and Yul, they are adopted. Sometimes mentioning people's partners, but like definitely only if they're straight. Simone's boyfriend gets mentioned all the time, and for some queer people, I think their idea of liberation is it not being mentioned at all. And I think for some queer people it's like, no, I want this to be a thing that people talk about in the same way. Have you guys thought about it? Where do you fall like how do you feel about it for yourselves?

Emma:What do you mean how do we feel about it?

Blake: So say if like Kathy Johnson Clark is commentating, a meet, say that Pride meet, so Kathy Johnson Clark is commentating the Pride meet, does it feel more affirmative for you for her to say 'we have these two amazing, incredible bi gymnasts, Kaly and Emma' or to show Mia, or whoever, in the crowd? or does that feel invasive or weird?

Kaly: I think, I don't know, if someone were to mention a significant other, like they would with Simone's guy or I don't know, just casual and normal, that would be fine I think. But if they were just to say yeah, here comes Kaly, she's bisexual. Okay, and?

Kino: I feel like that would be really awkward.

Emma: Yeah I don't know, I tend to want to be a more private person. So things where it's showing a super personal part of my life would feel slightly invasive but it would also be exciting and fun too. I think that's just more of like a me thing, like I need to push myself because I think it would be fun. Like it's fun celebrating at Pride and it would be cute to see Mia on the screen, so.

Blake: This is especially telling PAC 12 network and also all of the significant others, if all the significant others of all genders could please sit together at a meet so we can get a shot of everyone as like the significant others. That would be great. Thank you.

Kino: I would love that. Yeah, because you don't want to be invasive or exploitative. It could be exploitative if just in the middle of the pride meet they just panned over and be like 'it's Mia' and everybody just like okay, are we pointing out anyone else?

Emma: Yeah, that would be, it would be a bit odd if it was just focused on us

Blake: Yeah, I think part of it too is just like what Kathy said, she always just talks to people and sees what they want her to do and I was like, oh right.

Ok, there were a couple of specific questions I think were interesting. Kaly people wanted to know about GPAC and for the people who don't know what it is, to explain it. But also, if there's anything going on, what y'all have been up to.

Kaly: Okay. so GPACK stands for Gymnasts for Peace, Action and Change. The group was created by John Court who is the head coach of the University of Arizona gymnastics. It's basically a group with some gymnasts and a couple of coaches from PAC 12 and it's basically to try to create lasting change for equality and diversity and inclusion in the sport

Blake: That makes me so happy. I know it's been like a weird year to be getting started with it, but either what is something you guys have gotten to do already or what's something that y'all are working towards?

Kaly: Well we've we've gotten to do a few things, in March for women's history month, the members of GPAC all made a post highlighting a female role model and mentor that's present in their programs in this sport, and that was important.

Kino: I think I remember that.

Kaly: Yeah, empowering women, and then we even got our own masks this year, Isis Lowery came up with a design and it looks so good, I am obsessed. It's rainbow letters and every gymnasts got the GPACK mask at PAC 12 championships and it was so cool. I was so happy, I felt so proud to be part of the group

Kino: I love that

Blake: I love it too, and I love that from from what I can tell there's enough people on it where there's multiples of a lot of identities and people from lots of different schools, and even if it's different personality types on there, which is really great for working with teams. it's just so cool to me that it exists. Oh my God, it's amazing.

Kino: I'm gonna get back on the gymnastics train for a little bit, so even though obviously you were both injured and in recovery from various things, Emma mentioned her surgery and Kaly talked about how her ankle, are there any upgrades in the works on floor for Emma or Kaly on bars or is it just getting back to normal for both of you?

Emma: I really wanted to get my triple this year back on floor, I'm just going to see like how it goes, I am cleared to start running the beginning of August, so that's going to give me like two, I don't know how many, a few months train, which is not a lot

Kino: I was like that, seems great and you're like, no,

Emma: I mean to be like upgrading and where I want to be for season like yeah, we'll see if I get there a but yeah

Kino: we have two more years,

Blake: yeah, technically three if you want to go an extra year, just saying

Kino: because everybody got an extra year.

Emma: Yeah, that's true.

Kino: What about you, Kaly?

Kaly: for me, it's been a lot of just getting back to normal, but also I've been working upgrades on bars. I don't know, it's kind of casual to me, but upgrades are like my favorite things, I literally have 21 different release moves because I just love playing around with skills and seeing what I can do.

Kino: I love that so much. You know what? I really liked the increase. I feel like I've seen more of these this year in elite and NCAA, I'm just really into the between the bars deltchev. I don't know why, I'm not saying that you need to do that, but it just made me think of how you said you have like 21 releases you could do, and I'm like, yeah. I've seen some more interesting releases lately, you know, and releases scare me. I like doing gymnastics in my brain. I mean in the sense of like, when I see some of the stuff that you guys do, I'm like, how?

Blake: Not these two in particular, but like everyone, I get nervous. But of all people, these two make me very not nervous, which I appreciate.

Kino: Yeah, but the process of seeing somebody do anything pretty much on bars, any release move. I'm like, so how does that work?

Blake: Okay, I was alerted today to a video of MyKayla Skinner's channel, which, you know, it is not like me to go to. But I was, someone showed me this video today at MyKayla Skinner's channel where Tom is putting these velcro leg cuff things on her and talking about the development of them and then something about you putting them on and falling on your face. So I would love, somebody asked if they could hear about what happened there.

Kaly: Sure

Blake: Not to like make you relive that moment, but somebody asked

Kaly: you know, it's all good. It's not the first time that's happened either. Yeah, so that has happened, if not multiple times through the years, Tom he likes to invent stuff. I remember one time he invented some type of device for making cappuccinos because he loves cappuccinos, but when he first got the prototype for his sticky toes, I think that's what it's called, He had me and some other girls in my group test them out for him. And for those who don't know what sticky toes are there, they're velcro straps that you wrap around each foot so that your feet stick together. but I was standing there with my sticky toes on and my feet were together. So when I tried to start walking, my feet weren't moving and I fell flat on my face. But it's honestly very on brand for me, like something people might not know is that I'm very clumsy. It is one of the things I was kind of famous for at my club gym. I was always tripping and wiping out, but doing the most normal things like moving mats or walking. So yeah.

Kino: we also want to go back to the fact that Tom invented a cappuccino machine? Like what?

Kaly: Yeah, he has a lot of ideas

Kino: A cappuccino machine does exist Tom, I think it's called an espresso machine. Oh my gosh, Tom

Kino: I also just find it really funny that he was like, I invented these things that go on your feet, try them, tiny gymnasts

Kino: Like you couldn't like what? You were probably like what? 15?

Kaly: Uh closer to 12

Kino: Oh my gosh, I shouldn't laugh but I just, Oh that's really funny though

Blake: That makes complete sense to me based on what I do know about him as a person that he would just be like, I invented this.

Kino: So are they like an actual thing that people use though?

Kaly: Mhm.

Kino: Oh my gosh, that's also just kind of hilarious, but is it just supposed to make it So when you're on the bars, your legs don't separate?

Kaly: Yeah, it's like to train yourself to keep your feet together.

Kino: Ok

Blake: It was like the funniest thing I've ever seen Tom say, it was like, yeah, I had Kaly try them on and she went to go take a step and she just like fell flat on her face and I just went velcro is too strong

Kino: At least you know, they work. You will fall on your face because you won't be able to walk.

Blake: Oh my gosh, that's I didn't know that. That was a thing. And then somebody said it today and I was like, can I please see this video? And then they sent to me and I was like, that's magical. Also, Kiley Robatin from Pitt wants to know if you all can be friends.

Kaly: Absolutely.

Kino: I think she would get along with you two well

Kaly: I have a friend, I was teammates with her like all throughout club, And she just moved into her dorm at Pitt and she'll be an incoming freshmen on the gym team. So now I have two friends on the Pitt gymnastics team.

Kino: I love it. Mhm.

Blake: Yeah. They have something to talk about from day 1, is your friendship

Kino: She was so fun too

Blake: Yes. But also you all would get along.

Kino: You guys would really get along. You have the same energy.

Blake: Ah yeah. We've had a lot of good bisexual energy on this program.

Kino: Mm hmm. I just want to put you all in a room together and be like talk to each other because there's so many of you. I always say this but I'm like, can it not be COVID, we can all just like everybody fly to nationals.

Blake: It is actually a pretty good spread across teams that are very different from each other

Kino: And like there's gymnast in D3 and it's a very nice, like it makes our coverage a little more difficult, But that's not really something to complain about. It's just really nice to know that there's pretty much always a meet with a queer person competing at all times. And if there's not, there's at least a coach

Blake: It got pretty overwhelming when we were putting out the list of all of the meets, I had to stop doing the coaches by the time I enter postseason because I was just like, they don't fit anymore on the thing. And then everyone, everyone basically got eliminated the same day. Like all the queer people just got knocked out and I was like okay

Kino: I'm just so excited for you guys this season, next year. Like so like so genuinely. I got really stressed when your schedule hadn't come out because it was a little bit delayed. I was stressed because some schools in California didn't have a season. So I was terrified that UCLA was gonna be like, oh we're not having a season. Like I can't deal with that. Like I can't emotionally deal with that

Blake: They'll survive. But like yeah I'm very glad for things to be like normal.

Kino: Yeah. I mean I also like totally would have understood if  they were like, no it obviously would have sucked but if they were like we can't have a season because of personal safety, I would've been like, okay I respect that decision. But when there was that time up in the air where we just didn't know, I was like, I can't deal with the not knowing. I'm the type of person who, especially during NCAA season, I will take my phone out and turn on an NCAA meet no matter where I am.

I was at dinner with my extended family last weekend during trials and pulled out my phone at the restaurant as well and was watching trials. I think I watched nationals at a wedding. No, it wasn't nationals. I watched regionals at a wedding during the reception, not during the actual wedding, but I like pulled it open and somebody was like really? and I was like, they can appreciate it. Ohio State's here. They're like, Ohio State people. Ohio State actually did very well, it was that meet.

Blake: I had people who care about the Michigan/Ohio state rivalry at my house and I was like, here we go.

Kino: But I was like, I'm sorry UCLA is competing right now and that is important to me, almost as important as this wedding. It is equally important apparently in my brain.

Blake: Yeah. Wait until the olympic schedule, because everything is at like four or six in the morning if we're gonna watch it live

Kino: Are either of you olympics people in general? Like my family is really into watching all the weird sports too. Are you like oh I'll just watch it passively or are you like I'm only gonna watch gymnastics or I'm only going to watch this weird sailing team because I think that they look fun, or are you like no I don't watch the olympics ever

Kaly: When the olympics are going on. That is the only thing that is ever on the TV For us. I'm not always watching but it's always on and my dad is super into all the olympic stuff because he was an Olympian twice and he's just that world.

Kino: Sorry I completely forgot about that

Blake: Did you say so is your mom? Because I think I knew about your dad?

Kaly: Yeah my mom wasn't an athlete but she is very much into the olympics.

Blake: That makes more sense.

Kino: What sport did your dad play or compete in?

Kaly: He competed in bobsled but he almost he almost went for track and field but he got injured either at trials or right before trials.

Kino: Yeah there is that weird crossover between bobsled and track. But yeah what about you, Emma?

Emma: Yeah, I just kind of casually watch. I always try to watch gymnastics and my family really likes watching the gymnastics one, so I watched that with them. And we watch track but I'm not super into the olympics. Yeah, I kind of briefly watch, bits and pieces

Blake: That's usually where I'm at, but we're gonna cover a lot of stuff apparently. So yeah, I'm gonna watch a lot of weird shit this year.

Kino: I come from like a family that's very into swimming so we watch a lot of swimming. I was very invested in track and field weirdly this year, even though I hate running, I feel like there needs to be justice for Sha'Carri Richardson, I'm really upset about that. But I will watch everything. We're just weirdly obsessed with the olympics. I will say, I think it's gonna be harder this year to be obsessed and excited just because of covid

Blake: Like no fans?

Kino: No, not even that. I just mean the safety of the athletes and also the people in Japan. I mean yeah, the no fans thing sucks but I just mean like the safety of the world and whether or not the olympics should be happening, like there's a shadow

Blake: I wrote this and feel like now it sounds like a dumb question but people wanted to have you two both on because I think people are very fascinated with your friendship and want all of the behind the scenes tea. What it's like for you two to hang out? What do you two do? What are some fun memories you have together that you want to share?

Emma: I feel like our normal is always, we always end up playing music together, playing UKulele or singing or we like making garage bands together. Like covers, it's fun. Ah TikToks, like make pasta,

Kaly: watch youtube

Emma: watch youtube. Yeah. Play cards.

Kaly: Yes, lots of cards.

Kino: What kind of cards?

Kaly: Egyptian war.

Kino: Okay

Emma: that's our game.

Kino: That's your game. Okay. It's Egyptian war is intense.

Kaly: It is

Emma: It's fun

Kino: I haven't played in a long time, but we play a lot of cards in the midwest. So I love it when people who aren't from the midwest say that they play cards.

Blake: What kind of youtube?

Kaly: We like Daz, he's a British dude, I don't know how else to describe him. He's funny.

Kino: I feel so old because I just had to look this up

Kaly: Cody Ko

Emma: Cody Ko and Noel.

Kaly: Yeah

Emma: I think that's how it started, us watching YouTube

Kaly: Yeah. Yeah.

Kino: Now I'm gonna have to go and watch this guy.

Blake: I'm usually pretty up on my YouTubes

Kino: Yeah, I'm not, that's not something I've ever been up on

Blake: I used to be and then I got older than everyone.

Kino: Yeah. There are certain people that I do know who they are, but I'm more likely to know like, oh, that's like a historical Youtuber and I hate that phrase so much. But do you remember when, this is really going to age us, do you remember when google videos and youtube combined? That's how old we are. We were like in middle school. I don't know if you guys were, you guys would have been born

Blake: I don't know. I don't know if they were, I don't know if they were! aAre there any other fun hangout times that you want to expose each other?

Emma: Hmm, trying to think

Kaly: We hung out a lot. Just all the time. Sometimes after home meets, I would just go straight to Emma's apartment. I don't know what we would do. Like watch a show.

Emma: Yeah.

Kaly: Get out of our leos. Yeah. And I'd sleep over because I didn't feel like walking back

Emma: Kaly would sleep on the couch

Kino: Yeah. I think that's a sign of a really comfortable friendship when you can just hang out and literally do nothing.

Emma: Mm hmm. Yeah.

Kino: That's a good thing

Blake: That is by far the thing I missed most about being a college student is my friends living in walking distance of me or just being able to crash, but still be on campus.

Kino do you have anything else?

Kino: I don't think so. You guys were such a fun time.

Kaly: Thank you!

Kino: Also Kaly you did say really nice things about us for that article.

Blake: Oh god Yeah

Kino: I wanted to say thank you so much.

Kaly: Of course!

Kino: I was like oh my gosh, there's a quote from Kaly about us. I was like, I feel kind of famous

Blake: Yeah, I didn't, we didn't know at all and then just to read the article and I was like, this is the nicest thing ever. Yeah, and we had a lot of different feelings about doing it because of Flo and that was one of the things that made it feel, like I'm glad that we did it (unclear) I was just like, okay, we're doing the things that we wanted to do and that's just really awesome.

I might edit this in to the other part but what responses did you all get after the pride meet last year and from y'all's little video?

Kaly: All really good responses, which was very much a relief because me and Emma are both scared to sing in front of people and this was going to be shown to a bunch of people, so we were nervous, but everyone was super nice and the responses were good.

Emma: Yeah all the responses were super super positive and nice. It was nice.

Blake: Now you have to like just figure out how you're gonna do a thing. Now we have expectations. I'm kidding. But it'll be nice to see.

Kino: Don't scare them

Blake: I know I'm kidding, but it'll be cool to see just what in general y'all do this year.

Emma: Yeah.

Blake: Everyone going bigger and better. Anyone is going to be able to do it the best, I trust the team of people y'all have over there and also just the access you have to like LA queer stuff I think is hopefully helpful.

Kaly: Yeah

Blake: I just, I just want drag queens so bad.

Kaly: Me too

Blake: If I can book one, if I can get a drag queen to Long Island for LIU's meet, I will find a way to get one to y'all, I swear

Kino: It's LA. Are you telling me that, like there has to be somebody

Kaly: Earlier, like at the beginning of this year, Chris hired two drag queens to come to one of our zoom meetings so maybe we'll get one of them.

Kino: What was the explanation for that?

Blake: Context please

Kino: Just like hey we're having drag queens in our zoom meeting or what?

Kaly: It was a surprise but they, we did cooking right? We made it a beverage.

Emma: They taught us how to make beverages. It was during our quarantine. Everyone was stuck inside for nine days. So we were doing fun activities.

Kino: Okay. I was just like, why is Chris Waller just bringing two drag queens to a team zoom meeting? With no context. Oh I love that. That it was like a fun activity. Like a fun group activity. I love that.

Kino: I was like, is this gonna be like a motivational speaking thing? Like here's the keynote for our group bonding. I brought you two drag queens.

Blake: I want to make a drag queen happen. (Unclear) already just do such an amazing job. So I can't even imagine what bigger and better will be. I'm very excited. I know a lot of people are. People just adore the two of you. And so people are gonna be excited to hear from you all again. Always good to talk to you. Is there anything that y'all are working on or excited about or anything else that you want to say to the people?

Kaly: Um, hmm, No, but thank you to the people

Blake: That's perfect. That's perfect. I didn't do my thing this time where I usually say it while it's happening. But there was a good cold open in there somewhere. So I can already hear how this episode will make sense as an episode.

Kino: Oh absolutely. Can the title just be thank you to the people? That was my first thought.

Blake: I was gonna say Tom Forster made me fall on my face. I'm kidding. Emma, have anything to say to the people?

Emma: You guys should go follow Kaly's Youtube.

Kaly: Oh my gosh.

Emma: If you want to follow some, there's some music content.

Blake: If you let us we'll link it in the description, if you want

Kino: I just googled YouTube: Kalyany Steele but it just comes up with your coming out video and then a lot of bars routines and your 2017 full routine at US Classic. It's not coming up with what I want

Blake: We'll find it. We'll get it from you, we will. That's exciting.

Kino: It is. I'm excited. That's going to be the Youtube wormhole that I go down tonight. Rabbit hole? Wormhole?

Blake: Thanks to you both for being here and hopefully we'll get to see you in real life next time.

Kaly: Yeah. Oh my gosh, that would be so fun. Thank you so much for having us.

Emma: Yeah, thank you guys so much

Kino: Thank you so much for coming back.

Blake: We're too midwestern to stop saying, thank you.

Kino: Thank you so much for listening. We hope that you enjoyed our interview with Kaly and Emma, if you'd like to reach out to us on social media. All of our socials are linked in the link tree below along with our Patreon if you'd like to help us pay our bills. We'll see you in two weeks!
