Ella: Look, I think that I'm the only person and I didn't really realize, I didn't know how serious that was, but I'm like, no, Nia, like I don't know if you really know, like it's just me.

Blake: Hello and welcome to another episode of the Half In Half Out Podcast I'm Blake recording this intro solo from home, it's mid May and we recorded this interview with Ella Douglas in early April and we're really excited to finally be able to put it out. I wanted to give a couple of heads up for some things that we talked about. The first is we do talk about Sam Cerio's injury. She was a gymnast at Auburn who injured both of her knees and it was really scary and she had asked folks to not circulate in the video and so for reasons that will become clear once you listen to the interview, we do talk about that situation. We don't go into any graphic detail about the injury, but I just wanted to give you a heads up that we do end up talking about that as well as we do talk about doctors for a little bit, we only talk about great doctors, but I know that especially in a sports context might be triggering for some of our listeners. And so I just wanted to let you know that Ella talks a bit about the wonderful experiences that she has had with her doctors and so I just wanted you to know that we have those discussions and so, thank you so much to Ella for being in an interview. Thank you to all of our frontline workers. Health care workers, Thank you to Kino and all of our educators who are working really hard to keep everything running, we appreciate you. We will be back as soon as we can with another episode, but for now, please enjoy our interview with Ella Douglas.

Blake: So joining us for our interview today is Ella Douglas, the only senior on MSU's gymnastics team this year. Thanks for joining us, Ella, how are you doing?

Ella: Hi, I'm good, thank you so much for having me.

Kino: We're really excited to have you

Blake: Oh, it's so exciting. Now you're free,

Ella: Yeah, yeah I'm all done

Blake: How has it been for you with season ending early and how are you doing?

Ella: Um initially, okay, it didn't hit me for like a week because I think for, I am the only senior, so for my whole team, they took a bit of a hit with our season ending, but they get to come back ultimately. Um, mine was a little different. I was trying to figure out how to feel, knowing that I don't have another season to come back. I mean, I'll still be at MSU because I'm finishing out some classes and I'll be helping coach the team a little bit next year.

Kino: Yes! We need to try and go to a meet

Ella: yeah, so I'll still be here. But it took me a little bit to process. I think ultimately I'm feeling very grateful. I didn't really expect that. I thought I was going to be really sad. I thought I wasn't really gonna know what to do. Um, but I've been reflecting in quarantine and uh, I have seen a lot of people in this sport not finished out the way they wanted to or having things be cut short through injury or through, something mentally or personally. And I'm actually feeling very grateful that, I mean, my last meet with senior night, my family was down on the floor with me. I had two career highs. I'm healthy. I made it through an entire season healthy, which has been a really long, since that's been the case for me. Um, so yeah, I'm just feeling very grateful.

Blake: That's awesome. I saw you had senior night. So that's really nice that you

Kino: yeah, I'm glad you got to have that.

Ella: That was special.

Kino: And I mean it was just like the Ella Show because you're the only like senior video meet Ella Douglas,

Blake: Okay, so ever since we started the podcast, folks have learned us to talk to you and people have referred to you as like the only out queer NCAA women's gymnast and all I can really tell is like one day I decided to post like you and your girlfriend on instagram, did you intend to like come out publicly? Um how did that process work for you?

Ella: So I think the first post that I had put out on instagram was the two of us and I think it was for her birthday, which is in April actually coming up soon and we had officially been dating since June so it had, it was only my family and my teammates and people that were very close to me that knew in my circle and uh, Nia's very public, very okay with everything being kind of out there and, and she does play basketball here, so they definitely have more of a spotlight on them than gymnastics does for sure. Um, so she was kind of used to that already, and basketball, women's basketball in particular is a little bit more open already. There's a lot more open coaches, open players just across the board. Um, but gymnastics is obviously very different and there was a while where, I mean there was never any intention to hide her, but I know it was gonna be a big deal sort of, I did know I was going to be talked about and we used to joke, um, like she used to ask me, she's like, are you gonna post a picture of me? And I was like, look, I think that I'm the only person I didn't really realize. Like, I like, I didn't know how serious that was, but I'm like, no, Nia, like, I don't know if you really know, like it's just me, you know, if you come out, I was immediately embraced into your whole thing. It's almost like nobody even gave it a second look when she showed up to practice and was like, hey guys, I have a girlfriend. And I was like, I don't know if, you know, like for me, this is really like, it's just me. Um, and I think I'm also just a pretty private person in general. So again, there was no intent to hide her or anything, but I definitely waited awhile until it was a super solidified thing.

Kino: I mean, it makes sense as the person who's the half in part of this podcast, like I'm an incredibly private person, um, for a variety of reasons. But yeah, it makes sense. And gymnastics is not like, as we've talked about a little bit, it's not a super open space and like, we were looking at like historically like, out gymnasts and we were just like, they don't for women, they don't exist. There's like possibly one and we can't find any sources in english, right? So it's like there are none. It's like we know they exist, they can't not exist. It's just, they don't exist in history

Ella: right? And and it was interesting because Nia didn't really know anything about gymnastics until we started dating. Like she's very far away from that world, didn't know anything and I kind of had to explain to her. I was like, I know it sounds silly, but our sport is, it's pretty far behind, like I think we're catching up right now, but I have to be, especially because I'm in the public light, I'm expected to be very petite, very feminine, very like small little girl that's presenting a certain way, like there is not a lot of freedom to step up. We still have to wear bows when we compete, right?

Kino: And like emphasis on little girl because you're a woman.

Ella: Yeah, yeah, it's very like you're in a box whether you can recognize that or not. I know there's a lot of gymnasts that live their life however they want to and when they're in the space of gymnastics, they can kind of like turn off personal parts of them.

Kino: and like, perform

Ella: But yeah, yeah, but it's easy to let that consume you, I think for a very long time. I was in that box. And so it, it was interesting explaining that to someone who doesn't know anything about gymnastics.

Kino: yeah

Blake: Yeah. And I think that's part of what we've tried to really like unpack so far with this podcast is like, how did we get here? How do we get out of that? And why is gymnastics like so far behind everybody else

Ella: Yeah

Blake: Like there's, we've had folks tell us like, hey, I know some people who came out after the sport, like personally who maybe would talk to you or we've had a couple like men who have said like, hey, after this quad is over, or after the season is over. After this particular part of my career,

Kino: after the olympics finally happened,

Blake: right, that they would talk that they would talk to us, but it truly is just you

Ella: yeah

Blake: and that's a huge deal.

Kino: And that's like, I assume it's very isolating in a lot of ways?

Ella: Yeah, I've, I've definitely embraced how open basketball is.

Kino: Goodyear

Ella: Yeah. Like I, I feel very lucky that I'm dating someone who plays a sport where it is a bit more forward thinking and pushing the boundaries and a lot more open. I was welcomed with open arms into the women's basketball community at Michigan State. I think that's super important to say. I mean, I was super welcomed on my team as well specifically and at MSU as a whole, but just the difference with sports. I definitely leaned on basketball a little bit more because I was so welcomed with Nia and her family.

Blake: That's awesome. That's one of the things people asked about on twitter was how was it for you coming out to your team, and how did teammates show that they were supportive? Like what did that look like?

Ella: Yeah, so I was very nervous. Ah and again it's interesting. I didn't, I used the word like coming out lightly because I never kind of like came out and said I was something I just kind of was like I have a girlfriend so that's that's a bit uh it's a different experience. You get a different reaction from people. I was just coming out of, not just, but I was coming out of a relationship with a man and I had only previously dated men that my teammates knew. So it was it's a bit different than coming forward to me. Like I have a girlfriend now. Yeah my team was amazing because I didn't, I didn't want people to make a big deal of it even if it was positive. I just was like, I wanted so badly to have everything stay normal and I did feel like, I was a little bit nervous because at the time I was team captain, I was a senior. I also am SAC (Student Advisory Council) president at MSU, I had a lot of eyes on me, specifically in sport and I just wanted things to stay normal and my team immediately welcomed Nia, they wanted to meet her, A lot of them already knew who she was and those who didn't want it to meet her, all of a sudden my team is at the women's basketball games. Like they care about basketball all of a sudden like they're there and they were at parties with them. Like it was just, they immediately embraced it like no questions asked. So that's amazing and very nice.

Kino: I do think there's something to be said for like too much positive attention being brought to something.

Ella: right

Kino: I remember when I came out to my parents there was a conversation about people obsessing about it in positive and negative ways and it's like you don't really want either, you just want, you just want things to be normal.

Ella: Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So they did an amazing job. So did my coaches and, and basically everybody who was around me in the sport at MSU

Blake: That's great

Kino: Correct me if I'm wrong because I'm from Indiana and Indiana is a big basketball state, but I don't watch basketball. Sorry to your girlfriend. MSU is a big basketball school. Yeah?

Ella: correct. Like huge. It's a it's a big deal here. It's funny because I felt immediately like dating someone in a sport where people pay more attention to you. It's a, it's a different kind of pressure. Not necessarily a bad pressure, but you just feel like more eyes are on you, You feel not that you have to be careful, but just that your words or your actions carry a little bit more weight.

Kino: It's much more visible.

Ella: Oh yeah. Yeah, Absolutely.

Kino: Basketball players in Indiana are like celebrities.

Ella: Mm hmm. Yeah.

Kino: It's a very midwestern thing. And like, yeah, that there are more eyes on you. Like, that's just how it is. Whereas you're like, hey, I watch college gymnastics and people are like

Ella: There are people here that like I am a senior and I still meet people in my classes that are like, I didn't know he had a gymnastics team. I'm like, oh my goodness,

Kino: That would drive me nuts. I didn't go to a school with a team. So I'm just like, if I had gone to a school with a gymnastics team, I would have been all about that.

Ella: Yeah. We actually had like increased our fan base so much this year. It was unreal.

Kino: Good!

Ella: Like this is through last year into this year. I felt a lot of like school support, which was really nice. So ...

Blake: that's awesome. I think it's just like, what I noticed people just like in my normal life just being like, hey, did you see like Kaitlyn Ohashi or did you see like Nia Dennis' routine or like, I think that helped and like collegiate growth initiative.

Ella: Yeah, yeah, people care

Kino: Whereas I had people last year who were like, hey, did you see that horrific injury? And I'm like, yeah, I really don't want to talk about it. I was like, I don't want to see the video, I already know all about it. Like this is a sport that is my life

Ella: Right. Um, interesting story. Uh, the Auburn girl,

Kino: yeah

Ella: The injury video that was like, you know, I went right after her at regional,

Ella: Oh my God, I was the girl that was on the floor that had to go next. That's me. Yeah, Yeah.

Kino: Sorry I didn't mean to bring up like a painful thing

Ella: I thought it was worth mentioning because people don't really know. Like yeah, insane.

Kino: Was that terrifying?

Ella: Oh yeah, yeah. I like came back and I actually ended up talking to a lot of, um, sports psych people here to try and, not, not so much for myself, but to try and educate them on like when you're working with people and like, especially we had sports like that work directly with gymnastics, and I came home and they asked me like how I felt and everything like that and I have always done sports psych, I always take it very seriously. It is the reason why I am so successful. I really know that it's all here for me, nothing can prepare you for moments like that. And when your body takes over like that, they're like, there's no sports psych left, there's no, you know, like it happened and I was in a state of shock for probably the rest of the trip. Like let alone the floor routine, let alone everything. And it's interesting. I just said like in the future because this is real for people, like there could potentially be a situation where you have to go after somebody gets injured in a massive venue. Like we're in LSU, you have to teach girls how to just like trust their body and trust certain things like that, because what if your mind shuts off, like you have to still be able to get through things, you know? And I was in a state where just like nothing. And I just like felt complete jell-o but you still have to be able to get through your routines. So I actually did some work with some sports psych people here about how to, not prepare people for that, but just like in the event that something happens like you still need to. Yeah, yeah, it was her knee and I was coming, both knees and I was,

Kino: That was gonna be my next question because

Ella: So I was still feeling a little funky about my own knees. Um saw that happen. I also, our team didn't make it to regionals that year. So I was there by myself, I was there with two other individual girls on my team, but we're on different events. I was truly by myself, which is already a weird feeling, like you go to college gymnastics and all of a sudden everything is team and then I got to the, I got to the to the meet and I was like oh this is like club again. Uh so that happened and I saw it and my coach looked at me and just like immediately turned me around and, You know just told me to take a walk, I left, it took about 20 minutes to get her up and off the floor. The judges actually came over to me and they asked if I wanted to re warm up because it had been so long, so basically they're carrying her off, they carried her out, the arena is completely silent. Everybody is spooked. That was the first time Nia had traveled to a meet to come

Kino: oh god

Ella: And her family

Blake: Oh No

Kino: Hey Look at my girlfriend's really dangerous sport

Ella: Right. So we're in LSU's Packed stadium and it's completely silent and the judge just comes over and he goes you can warm up again if you want to like okay, I just literally just start doing laps around the floor completely fine, Everyone's watching me, every other event is done

Kino: Because it's floor

Ella: yeah, I'm just running around the floor trying to get my legs warm, I can't feel anything like mind is gone. Did a couple of round offs, I think I did like a round of a handspring layout and I just looked at my coach and I was like I think I just need to go and whatever happens happens and the floor routine wasn't great, but I didn't expect it to be great,

Kino: But you got through it without catastrophes, which is what matters

Ella: And that's what I cared about. And I had reached out to the girl after and I had to finish out the meet with her team because I was rotating with Auburn. Um Yeah, yeah, So

Kino: Can I ask just related to that, how is it traveling with another team alone?

Ella: So I, I was lucky. My teammates, I felt like we're very lucky and we got, we ended up rotating around with teams that were super welcoming, were super nice and like had a spot for us in their locker room, offered us whatever food

Kino: That's so sweet!

Ella: They were like, what's your name? Because we're going to cheer for you too. So like

Kino: I can't

Ella: I don't know if everybody has that experience. I imagine that not everybody does. Um I think it depends what team you get how open they are to like the new person versus like let's focus on getting our team to nationals kind of thing. But I was very fortunate to have,

Kino: I mean I personally think it would be a dick move to not support the person with you

Ella: Right. So I was very fortunate to have a really nice like team to rotate around with and so were my teammates.

Kino: I was just curious because we've never, we never hear about that. Like what it's like,

Ella: yeah, it's different. It's different.

Kino: I've only been to one meet live

Ella: And even though it was, even though I had a good experience, I did come back to Michigan and looked at my team and said I'm never going to regionals by myself so we need to get it together because we're going as a team next year. I'm never going by myself again. So yeah, yeah. And then this was the year that we would have gone

Kino: I was gonna ask where you guys expected to go?

Ella: Yeah, yeah.

Blake: Okay. So you kind of mentioned like when you started posting stuff with Nia on Instagram that you're already, you're already out to your team, that you went to some other people in your life. So does that mean you like weren't out throughout elite? I don't know if you're out to like yourself during elite times. Um, did you kind of like go back? How have those girls been since?

Ella: So when I, when I did post the picture, basically everybody that didn't know that was in my life just had the most wonderful things to say. Like I had all these old teammates back home that I haven't spoken to a really long time that reached out and said I want to meet her, like that was like the first thing I was like she looks really awesome. I want to meet her. I was like, Okay! I actually, again, I felt very fortunate that I didn't get a lot of questions directly about like, so what are you, what do you identify as, What is it? Because I really just came out and said I had a girlfriend and I hadn't put a label on it and I hadn't put anything on it and it took me a really long time to even figure out what that was for me. I think I've kind of settled on like queer feels very comfortable for me, but also like bisexual feels very comfortable for me. What's interesting is I had no idea about anything about myself really until I met Nia. So I just grew up in a home where both of my parents openly made a choice to say to me when I was younger, when you bring your person home when you're older, right? I never had a label. I never had like when you bring your boyfriend home or you know when you have a husband when you're older, like there just was no label at all. I think that was an active decision of both my parents and they have also done that with my little sister too. So I just never really had that. And then growing up and kind of through elite, I identify this straight. I had a lot of friends that were out. I had mostly male friends that were out, I know that men's gymnastics and tumbling and trampoline is a little bit more accepting than women's gymnastics. So I grew up with friends that were out, my parents had friends and coworkers that were out, so it was never like a thing that I didn't understand or that I didn't know and I came to college and I had, it was that was my first time kind of dating anybody and I had only dated men and then, so I met Nia, Nia and I were friends for a while, just kind of on and off, we knew each other and then we got really close one summer and she had expressed that she had feelings for me and I had the same feelings and I didn't even really think twice about it and so that's just kind of and then we eventually started dating and then I just had said from that point on, yeah, like Nia's my girlfriend, so I never really had to come out, but I also didn't have anyone in my life that was pushing me, to put me in a box, which was really, really nice for me, so yeah, it just kind of happened and I really hadn't given it any thought, like some people did come forward and they're like, I didn't know you were gay. I was like, me neither.

Kino: Those stories are important too as someone who really at least figured out, or at least came to terms with that kind of thing at an older age, it's those stories are important to, you don't have to have everything figured out at 15 or 16,

Ella: Right. There's people that definitely know when they're younger and then there's people who just were never exposed to having to be on, like a spectrum.

Kino: I can look back and say, oh definitely X, y and z. But like growing up where I grew up and it's just really, I was just like, that wasn't, that wasn't an option.

Ella: Um hmm

Kino: It wasn't

Blake: We just looked back, we just like watched stick it and we were like, oh, oh right. We were, yeah, we should have known.

Ella: Yeah,

Blake: We didn't know

Kino: Like I should have known.

Ella: That's funny. But yeah, it was a bit different for me because I really, um and yeah, you don't care about those stories very often, but I really didn't give it any thought. And I had not, ever, not that I didn't have a desire to, I had never thought to call myself anything other than straight. And then I met Nia and I had feelings for her and I just kind of took a leap of faith and chose to run with it and now we're here

Kino: And now you're in quarantine together. I love it so much

Ella: For the last two years, basically, my both of us for our whole junior and senior year, we have very like busy, busy schedules, but we're always able to find time in the day to see each other and we're usually with each other at night. So yeah, it doesn't feel too different from that.

Blake: So, you know, you're doing Med School, what is the, like, what kind of medicine do you want to do?

Ella: So my passion has always been in Children's medicine. Um whether or not down the road I end up involving sports in that, I'm not really sure most of my connections are in sports medicine. I know that helps a lot, but definitely pediatrics in some way, shape or form. I was very fortunate to have amazing doctors in this sport. I think in the last couple of years I've been very vocal about that just as someone who wants to go into medicine, my doctors, So like my sports doctor back home, my trainers, my, even like my pediatrician, my surgeons, I've had a number of surgeries, they have all saved my life like completely, completely like they are the reason why I was able to do the sport for as long as I was and why I stayed sane in the sport. Honestly, like I've never been exposed to so many people in the medical community that were not just like, or like didn't treat you as just like a patient. Like I was basically, I felt like there kid. So I just from a very early age felt like I wanted to do that for other kids. So whether or not that involves sports, I'm, I'm not sure yet, but yeah. I've had three major surgeries, and my first two would not have happened had I said something a year prior, right, but you don't, and you just keep going and you feel the pressure not to say anything and you end up needing intense shoulder surgery when you're 16, you know? My doctors were very, very good about everything being my decision and making sure that I was being cared for physically and mentally. All of my doctors still check on me, like they're all still in my life in some capacity, which is very, very special to me. I actually just, I did all my clinical hours with one of my  sports doctors back home.

Kino: That's great. So is that why you don't do bars?

Ella: Yeah, shoulder. My main sports doctor that I kind of had my whole life, he actually was the reason that I was able to do college gymnastics because post elite career, I was going to retire, like my body could not handle it anymore. I really, almost like I called my college coaches at MSU and almost really threw in the towel, and I sat down with him and came up with a plan and he like deliberately like parents out of the room coaches out of the room like you and me are going to figure out like how long you actually have in this sport and what's safe for you to do and what's not anymore and ended up coming up with a plan and you know, he had communicated to my coaches and yeah, without him, I wouldn't have made it to college gymnastics for sure. But yeah, yeah, he's a really special guy.

Kino: So we have a couple of questions from Twitter that we want to ask you, specifically how can, how do you think schools, coaches, teammates and all that can make it safer and more comfortable for LGBTQ+ gymnastics to come out? Because like you had a positive experience.

Ella: I think it, I think it has to be talked about, you know, like part of the reason that I had a positive experience, particularly with my family is because it was talked about, I saw people that were out being appreciated and celebrated for who they were. Nobody shied away from talking about it. I even think it's important now that I go home to my club gym to visit and I still do a lot of mentoring with like the little girls at my gym and my club coaches are very open and okay with me saying that I have a girlfriend

Blake: Nice

Ella: That is so important, just like visibility, although the numbers are very, very low, even in like pop culture, right? Like I just feel like there needs to be exposure and not like over exposure, not anything just, like if a kid asks a question, they should get an answer, You know? Like if it's being talked about, like it's okay to be talked about

Kino: Not hidden away.

Ella: Right. I mean because gymnastics is such a unique sport in that your coaches and your teammates and your environment, it truly becomes like your family, like the gym becomes your home because you spend so much time there. So I don't think that coaches, and people like adults in the sport should shy away from the fact that you are raising these kids. There was a number of years where I saw my coaches more than I saw my parents like for the hours in the day.

Kino: Right, that's the life of an elite gymnast

Ella: Right. You're helping raise these kids. So, you have to be able to talk about it, right? Like I know there's some female coaches that will sit down with their girls, and you know, you start to have a boyfriend talk, you know, make it more open, have a partner talk. Things like that. Because I do participate in a lot of extracurriculars here and a lot of things to do with SAC and we have like a diversity and leadership committee here that I'm also on and basically everybody in student athletes support services gave me the freedom to just like, when I came out and when people knew, they right away, were like, do we need, uh, do we need a pride group? Do you like, do you want something here? Do we need another club? Do we need this? Do we need this? I actually sat down with the athletic director kind of in the middle of this year and talked about starting pride initiatives at this school and kind of figuring out how to get MSU on the map with that because there's some other schools in the Big Ten that just are so, so out so visible, so accepting and like MSU is not there at all.

Kino: MSU pride meet!

Ella: Right. So they had kind of mentioned to me if there was anything that I felt like I needed and they've just been so incredible. So I actually reached out to Athlete Ally and I'm in the process of starting a chapter here at MSU. So I thought that was worth mentioning, just that the student athletes support services here have been very, very helpful. Accommodating, nice, all the above

Blake: That's amazing. Somebody else on Twitter asked and this is probably like the most loaded question ever, But somebody asked, people are curious as to your feelings about decision around winter sports and not getting another year.

Ella: Oh, okay. So, I've actually had to, I've been working on this stuff for the past basically since we went on quarantine. Um, so every, because I'm the SAC president at MSU, we have conferences and we get together with the rest of the SAC presidents in the Big 10, where we do a lot of work with legislation and have to talk about that stuff. So it's been being talked about for a while. I, I understand, you know, like I can't say that I'm happy. I was ready to be done. I'm okay with being done, but I know that there's a lot of winter sport people that were not, I just don't see how that is entirely doable. Like financially and schedule, like with the schedule for university, you know, spring sport is already hard to work around. Um, I understand that winter sport would have been very difficult. So like obviously in a perfect world, should everybody get their year back? Yes or at least have the opportunity to. But I do understand that. Like to give the winter sport athletes their season back. That's essentially a whole season because almost everybody in the winter sport was already in their postseason. That's a lot for a university. So I understand that

Kino: You weren't cut off one meet, like it wasn't the cut wasn't cut off after one meet, it was like, literally we're in post season. We had this, he and I had this conversation briefly before.

Ella: Yeah

Blake: Like it was so close

Ella: People were already done basically in the winter and if you didn't make postseason, you were actually already done. So, I do understand from a, from the perspective of the institution, it's incredibly difficult to like go back and do that right? Because then also from the academic side does everyone just get to take a bunch of electives? Are people starting grad school early? Do those sports even have scholarships to give out, full scholarships for all those kids? Like I know for gymnastics, like we're full until I don't even know, you know, people commit so early. That's very last minute to find out if there's money for you next year or

Kino: That was a big discussion that we had was it's an issue of, depending on what school you're at, how many seniors are leaving? and how many scholarships spots you have left.

Ella: Yeah. Yeah.

Kino: And what do you can't tell a bunch of freshmen you can't come because of COVID-19. Like what?

Ella: Yeah, you can't push I think that would have done more damage to push all the people just coming in back. So. Yeah, but I know it's hard and like, I know no matter what you say, that is people that are obviously walking away from their sports with hurt feelings

Kino: Of course, and those feelings are completely valid.

Ella: Yeah, absolutely. It's just it's a bit different for people who were kind of already ready to be done, you know?

Blake: Yeah. Yeah, it is really interesting spot for gymnastics, I think in particular, just because so many seniors were just like, well, hopefully I can make it through senior year,

Kino: Right, like so many seniors in gymnastics are like, this is the end of my career, not the beginning

Ella: I was counting down and I had so much fun this year. I used to hate competing. I've always loved training and they hated competing and I managed to fix that when I got to college and truly, truly started enjoying competing. But the reality is this sport is so tough on your body. You reach a point where, you know what's safe for you and you know what's not. I knew that this was gonna be my last year. Even if I got another year next year, even if something happened, like I knew that this year was going to be my last year.

Kino: I know people are always like, gymnast should go back to elite and I'm like, oh my gosh, but I understand why you wouldn't like, dear God,

Ella: Right, right.

Kino: Like elite is hard enough on your body.

Ella: Oh yeah. To make, I have so much respect for the girls that come out of college and go back to elite. I have no idea, I have no idea.

Blake: It blows my mentioned

Kino: Like, unless maybe you didn't peak before you went to college

Ella: Like, how did you manage to not?

Kino: Seriously!

Ella: I just, I really don't know. Props to all the girls that go back to elite, I don't know how.

Kino: Like especially in the US.

Ella: Oh yeah

Kino: Like Canada too, but like some smaller countries maybe, but like not in big countries where like the depth is just (whoosh)

Ella: Right.

Blake: Alright. It was lovely to talk to you, Thank you so much for being on with us

Kino: We want you to come back. I've already decided

Blake: Yes, as much as you want.

Ella: Oh, I would love that. I would love that. Thank you so much for just an opportunity to talk about myself and my experience.

Blake: Of course!

Ella: This has been a very interesting couple of years for me, especially since I started kind of getting some attention from this. So thank you for giving me the chance to kinda really speak from the heart about how I feel and, and Nia too.

Kino: Yeah, thank you so much for coming on.

Blake: Yeah, that's great. The whole, I think one of our like biggest goals we created this was like actually getting queer folks in the sport to be able to talk and have a platform so to finally get to do that. It's just

Kino: And we have a lady.

Blake: A lady! Just like, there's no ladies.

Ella: First one technically, maybe

Kino: The first one on our show.

Ella: Yeah. Yeah, I know it's a, it's a big deal. I think this is a special thing. You guys are you guys are doing some good work out here.

Blake: Wonderful. Alright, well it's lovely to talk to you. Thank you so much. We'll talk to you soon hopefully.

Kino: Also your eyebrows are amazing. So good.

Ella: Thank you!

Blake: So good!

Ella: I just needed to tell you that before we run
