Sirena: I have never, never once publicly said this, but [sigh] I don't wanna get emotional, and I want you to keep this in here because I want to make this something that's known because I think it's important.

*****
[Intro Music: Din Daa Daa (Dub), Song by George Kranz]
Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe

*****

Blake: Hi Sirena, how are you?

Sirena: Good. How are you?

Kino: Not bad, not terrible

Blake: Yeah, I'm very glad that it is almost Friday.

Kino: Oh I know

Sirena: Literally same

Blake: How have you been, how season been for you so far?

Sirena: I've been good, season has been chaotic, but what's new? Just going with the flow. I think with COVID and everything, it's been kind of unpredictable, but I think it's starting to mellow out a little bit, so we kind of have a little more clarity going into every meet.

Kino: You've never had a normal season, because your freshman year got completely cut off

Sirena: No, I haven't. And that's been really weird for me too. I mean I competed a little bit halfway into my freshman year and then everything was shut down last year. No fans. So I'm kind of just like, after our first meet got canceled, I was like, we're not doing this again, let's not. And then we had fans next meet and it was just a lot of fun. So I just want to keep that going. I want to go in the postseason. I'm ready for the full experience.

Blake: Yes, very much. We're gonna be at one of the regionals and we're just like, we want the coolest people there, hoping that we get to run into you. Yeah, it's been really cool to watch you this season. I think the first full season where we have known about you and we're paying attention to you in particular, you're on my fantasy team this year. So I've been watching super closely and it's really funny, Arizona is not a team that I had paid attention to when I like, I've, I've been paying attention to college gym for a lot less time than Kino has

Kino: um not that much less time, but

Blake: yeah, but I, I was like, okay, I'm paying attention to Arizona now. it's been really, it's been really awesome and also people should be.

Kino: People absolutely should be

Sirena: I agree. I think we have a lot of surprises and I'm hoping that soon we'll just be able to get more people's personalities on our team because we have a lot to give. I feel I'm kind of the one who's starting to bring out the best in everybody. I would, I don't mean to say that in a cocky way

Kino: No, not at all

Blake: I would say that's what I would have guessed, and what I've noticed that your team is that it just seems a really rad group of people that, the personalities things, it just seems like a really cool group.

Okay, so we ask everybody this before we start talking about the gymnastics stuff or the life stuff, because we're both educators and so we're giant nerds. So your major is nutritional sciences, how did you choose that?

Sirena: Honestly? I wanted to do exercise science but I had a full ride to U of A already and I decided I'm going to go where the money is.

Blake: There you go.

Sirena: I felt this was the closest and I'm I'm also interested in nutrition, but I think it's just a good segue into medical related stuff and just sports. I feel it'll intertwine, so that's why I'm doing it.

Blake: Yeah, is there any is there a dream job or a thing that you're working towards in particular?

Sirena: Honestly, I feel I get asked that question so much and my answer always changes. I feel that's normal though, but I really want to be international, that's something that I've always wanted to do, whether that's sports nutritionist on a professional sports team predominantly, hopefully woman. But I also just want to go with the flow, I feel I have a lot to offer and I don't want to give myself one lane of like, *this is what I'm gonna do for the rest of my life* and I feel that's how everyone should be.

Blake: I totally agree. That's one of the biggest conversations, so I'm an academic advisor, and it's one of the biggest conversations that I have, especially with degrees like this where you can do so many things. I'm just like *don't, you shouldn't know, try all the stuff, get this degree where you can do a bunch of stuff and then try all of them*.

What else do you want people to know about you, the person before you start talking about you, the gymnast?

Sirena: Yeah. I mean, I'm first generation Mexican American That's really important to me. Nobody in my family has gone to college so kind of going into university, I was like, *I don't know what I'm doing, they don't know what I'm doing, I don't know what I'm doing*. So to be able to navigate that and kind of just pave my own path. That's been really cool and kind of just, break barriers I guess for my family and start start some new stuff for us.

I'm dating a woman's basketball player, I feel like I made that pretty known. So I am really close closely tied to Adia Barnes and our entire women's basketball team which is really cool to see them go crazy and final four. That's a lot of fun.

Kino: Oh my gosh, I'm gonna have to really root for your girlfriend in basketball now. Absolutely don't even watch, I only watch March Madness, I'm from basketball state and I don't watch basketball, but now I'm gonna be like, I guess we're cheering for Arizona.

Sirena: I feel it's a lot of fun too. It's really intertwined. A lot of our women's teams tend to kind of have these little connections. So that's, it's just been great.

Blake: Also like every other team and person that I've talked to, there's at least four of y'all dating women's basketball players.

Sirena: Yes, soccer players or softball players. You know, all the other queer sports.

Blake: Yeah And then you had gymnastics doesn't make this just like, okay, wait, pause,

Kino: Pause, pause, pause.

Blake: So to the extent that you feel comfortable sharing, what has your coming out process looked like?

Sirena: Okay. So I kind of have like, I don't know. Because when I was younger and I was in the gym, when I had moved from Arizona Sunrise to Desert Lights, kind of that weird high school phase where you're just getting into high school. I remember talking to some girls on the team and you know how little girls talk like, *oh, any boys, any girls*, those conversations. And I remember one time one of my teammates is like, well, could you see yourself with a girl? And I remember me being like, I don't know, I love everybody. Like, I don't, I don't know, I'm 12 years old

Kino: Oh my gosh

Sirena: But I'm like, I don't want to say no to something. I don't know. I just felt that was natural to me to just say like, *I don't know. Yeah why not?* You know? And and I remember the response being like, *oh my gosh, you like, that's so weird* and I just remember for the next few months after that a lot of my teammates at the time, kind of having this weird like, they look at me/point at me kind of thing. It's all catty, it was a little girl thing. And I remember after that, that freaked me out because I was like, *I don't know I'm, I was just talking* and I remember moving forward that would be my youngest experience with that kind of just saying like, *I don't know what I am, but I know I'm not straight*

Through my high school years I let it kind of simmer in the background. I don't know, coming into college, I kind of just one day John asked me to release a statement about the GPAC group that we have. And instead of me just being out to everyone like, hey guys, *I'm this* I decided I wanted to just make it a statement on that social media post they were going to do, and I just basically was just like *I am proud to be Mexican American. I am proud to be part of the LGBTQ+ community*, you know what I mean? I put it that way, and the people who read it, read it and the people who didn't, didn't. I personally just didn't want to make it this whole big *I'm this!* you know? That's just not me, I wanted it to just be like, okay. And what? It didn't need to be this huge, like, *oh my gosh!* no, I didn't want that

Blake: I wonder how much of that is generational, and how much of that is a gymnast personality thing. We've heard that so many times people are like, yeah, they just put a rainbow in their instagram description, like y'all figured it out

Sirena: Literally

Kino: Where as our generation, that's not how that works, you know?

Sirena: And honestly with my family, it was really, I didn't expect anything less, but it was really good. Like, I just remember talking to my dad and just being like, *hey, I'm going on a date with a girl* and he was like, *wow, so fun, have fun. It's good to go do your thing*, and I was like, okay, and then moving forward, I'm like, *hey, so we're dating now*, he's like, *okay, cool*. My mom was just like, *you guys are so cute*. They never once questioned me, which made me feel really good because I know so many people who have, I mean I don't personally, but I know of people have terrible experiences, and I always feel so bad about that. But personally I had it easy and I'm really blessed for that

Blake: And it was so casual too. It wasn't like, sometimes parents are overcompensating in those moments and be like, *we knew* so they it weird I'm glad that it actually was the easiest and smoothest coming out ever and I'm so glad that that was your experience. Is there a word within the acronym that you tend to use to talk about sexual orientation or is it just like I'm one of those things?

Sirena: I feel I can be any of them. Like, that's just how I am. I don't want to put a label on myself. I don't think that, for me personally, I need to. I'm dating girl, take that as you may, you know? I'm a lesbian, I am in a lesbian relationship that is what it is, you know? And if I wasn't then it doesn't matter what I am, I'm Sirena, so that's, I don't know. I've had many people messaging me like *what is she? Is she bi? Is she this, is she pan?* I don't know, I'm dating, I'm dating a woman and that's all that matters at this point in time.

Kino: Right

Blake: Yeah and I think too, that has changed so much over time also, just the need for community, and why we clung to labels, it's just so much of that is different now.

So you just posted, I don't think I realized that that was you coming out to people at the GPAC

Sirena: I mean, people knew before that. I mean my teammates, not the world, but it was a lot of fun when people started figuring it out though. I started getting people, the gaze following me, I was hey girl, you see me, I see you there was a lot of that and when you guys reached out to me last year I was well it's it's a thing now, and I wasn't mad about it. I never was it just wasn't trying to hide but I just I guess it was that was the perfect time to so-

Blake: Yeah people usually what happens is people will post something you did like the GPAC thing or whatever and then anywhere between one and 30 people will just send it to us and  a bunch of exclamation points. Then we always try to reach out to those people right away which was a year ago in your case, we try to reach out and if we can't have them on right away, we at least want them to know that we exist and that there's a ton of y'all.

Kino: Yeah. When we did our first interview it was that person genuinely thought they were the only queer gymnast

Sirena: When I really tuned into your podcast and started to realize all the connections. I was like, oh my goodness. there's a lot and I started following a bunch of them. Okay, so it's a lot of fun and Kaly I have a really good relationship. Especially when I do go to UCLA and stuff, they're always like, hey girl, doing the little hearts and it's a lot of fun. It's just, it's another community obviously

Blake: Good. I didn't put a question, I don't think I put a question here about GPAC. For people who don't know what is it? And then how has that been so far?

Sirena: Well basically it's a student ran and created diversity and inclusion group but it's specifically for gymnastics and I think that's really cool because we've never had anything that before. It's obviously within the PAC 12, although we're looking for other conferences to kind of jump in on this. I think that's gonna be great. It's a little bit shaky, but I think it's good to celebrate diversity. It's good to celebrate inclusion and to have those conversations with our team to be kind of that leading voice to have those hard conversations. It's good.

And it's also like, you have to push people's comfort zones and I think that with the girls who stepped up and said, *okay, I want to do this for my team* have really started to drive and make a difference with making everyone feel included. I know two years ago I was talking to my team about this, two years ago when I was a little freshman and we had what five seniors? I was like, I would have not came out then, I would've been too scared. I would have been scared of what other people were gonna think, and I'm not saying that to demean anybody on my team. I think it's just to create an environment of anybody coming in can feel like, *oh, I'm comfortable being myself right away* sort of thing.

So, it's student driven, so everything we do is our idea, and I'm hoping that when we go into the PAC-12s and stuff will have a lot more to show. I don't want to say too much, but we're working on themed meets. Obviously that's been a big goal for us this year and yeah, I'm glad to see some things starting to come together.

Kino: So you mentioned that you know, you kind of just made a statement with your GPAC post, you know, that was just like * ... and I'm, you know, part of the LGBTQ+ community*.

Was there some sort of coming out moment with your current team or was it just that thing like *hey I went on a date with a girl*?

Sirena: I think that when I started talking to Shaina, who's my girlfriend, I let some people know on my team and nobody really had a weird reaction to it which made me really comfortable. And I think after that, people just started putting two and two together, like they would see me with her everywhere. You know, we have an athlete kitchen, see us in the athlete kitchen. See us walking on campus, all these [things] and once I released that statement which, like I said, everybody before that it was just, that was pretty much it and everyone was really supportive of it, they were cute and wanted to meet her and eventually lead to a little team get together

Kino: I love that

Sirena: Now like I said, both of our teams are pretty intertwined in a way. So it's pretty cool.

Blake: That is really awesome. I was just gonna ask you how the team has actively shown that they support you, that seems to be a huge part of it, it's like being excited for you in the way that they would, if you were dating a dude

Sirena: Oh yeah, I mean there they asked me all the time like *What Shaina's next game? When's her next game? Let's all go*. And we actually did this halftime performance at women's basketball game, and it was so cool because I got to see her run into the little locker room where they do their little pep talks in between, I don't know what they do -
and then we're getting up on the beam and doing our little dancey-dance and we get off and I don't know, I just felt it was [unclear] and I don't know, everybody asked us to go on double dates and it's just, it's fun and I'm glad that it's not different and it shouldn't be

Blake: Yeah, they didn't make it weird. Have there been any ways that coaches or the other folks around you have shown support so far?

Sirena: Yeah, I mean like, I feel John [Court] was really the first person who started putting stuff together, my head coach. Him and I are already really close. So nothing was ever weird. He was the first person that I showed that little GPAC statement to and I just remember him telling me, *okay come up with this little statement for the social media, and just send it back to me* And I remember us being in the gym and I just kind of handed in my phone. I was like, *hey here what do you think about this?* And he read it? He was like, *that's great*.

And then my assistant coach walked over and he's like, *what is that?* And he was saying, *oh that's her little statement*. And they read it. And then they both just looked at me and they were like great. And I knew in the back of their mind, they were like *girl ...*

And then after that it took my head coach I think a couple of weeks to start really saying like, *oh you going to the basketball game?* He would see me coming with basketball shirts and say like *oh you going to the game tonight?* He would start throwing out random players, I think he was trying to figure it out like, *oh did you see number number four, for one?* And I'm yeah, that's really funny and eventually I posted her and he saw us doing little handshakes and walking around campus too so it was goo.

Blake: I love that

Kino: I do too. I guess that kind of leads into, so then how did all of this come together? You know you have supportive coaches, supported team. How did this all come together to, and I'm just jumping right into this question Blake, of a pride meet? Because you have that coming up.

Sirena: Yeah. So honestly it's something that I've always wanted to do. I made my debut at the UCLA Pride meet my freshman year. That was my first thing I ever did

Kino: Oh I love That

Sirena: I know it's what are the odds? And I was at that meet after I did my bar routine, they handed me the rainbow flag and I put it on me and I was doing dancey dance the rest of the meat and I was girl, like how did nobody catch onto that? I did not let go of that flag the rest of the meet. I promise you, if you go back and watch film you'll see it tied around my waist, you'll see me waving it up and down and that was so funny. But yeah we like

Blake: We fully have and frequently send out the youtube link for that meet too, I'm gonna go back and watch it. I'm so excited.

Sirena: Yeah. And I think that with being, I'm not the first, I'm actually the second LGBTQ+ person on my team, I think one was kind of a while ago. To be the first like, I guess out [on] social media, more present. I think that with that and with GPAC, with us trying to, you know, start this more themed meet kind of thing, John and I sat down and talked about what are the things that we could do here in Arizona? And I told him we need to do a pride meet! You have a gymnast, you have a face! And he's like, *yeah, I really want to, it's just difficult with the university, you know, you have to get everything passed and people supporting you and on your side. And I think that everything just really came together this year with our diversity & inclusion department and you know, we do these initiatives where we have this Wildcat logo, where we do pay for Black History Month, we have different different symbols that represent black history and they're going to do one for Pride coming up, which is gonna be the first time they've ever done that at a pride meet, and they're going to do a Wildcat logo with the pride flag. They're going to do a whole website and a whole publication/presentation, everything you know, to educate and promote Pride [meet/week unclear], which is new. We've never done that before. Like I said, we've never had a pride meet and we ordered, well I was talking to my assistant coach and I was saying we need to have leos. We need to have a diversity & inclusion leo. And so, I love the face you're making!

Blake: Because we've been saying that for 2 years!

[Cross talk]

Kino: I've been pushing for this for so long! If you can get a breast cancer awareness leo you can get a freaking pride leo. Not that breast cancer awareness isn't important, because it very much is

Blake: And it could be a broader DEI thing, that's okay.

Kino: But you know what I mean! Like its, [excited yell]

Sirena: I don't want to burst your bubble, but I don't think I am. We have to start a little bit smaller.

Blake: That's okay, you've planted the seed!

Sirena: No, we have a leo, we have a leotard. But it's a warm up leotard right now

Kino: Who cares, it's still a leo!

Sirena: I know! but -

Kino: I will never be dissappointed.

Sirena: Yeah. Well eventually we'll have a pride leo.

Blake: Oh I love that

Kino: Oh my God!

[Excited noises]

Kino: Oh my God, Arizona is breaking a wall here.

Blake: Oh my God

Kino: This is the most important thing that has happened to me today.

Sirena: Well originally we were going to do the whole flag on the stomach, but we wanted to have it intertwining with the university and the Wildcats logo. So I think it really, it looks really nice and we're gonna wear that for the Pride meet and I'm really excited because coming up with that design too, it took a lot of time and I talked with my assistant coach and you know, OZONE about what are we gonna do, you know, and it was a lot of fun to do and I feel be a part of that. I feel so special in knowing that these are going to be leotards that are probably gonna be in the program for who knows how long, so excited for it.

Blake: Oh my God

Kino: The most exciting news

Blake: I'm keeping our reactions to that in there because like

Sirena: You should

Blake: I'm so excited. We have been saying for, since literally that UCLA/Arizona pride meet, that is like the one thing, one of the things that we really, really wanted to see somebody lean in and do, that nobody had really done at all, like, people have done t shirts but nobody has done a leo at all. It is the second leo I've ever seen, first one for WAG, that has an intentionally queer rainbow-y thing on it. Both of them also have the trans flag piece in it too, which like, will make me have a full emotional breakdown when I see your entire team wearing those, it's just so cool, that's just so cool.

Sirena: I'm trying not to break down myself and I think that's what was most important to you to me is like, we don't just want a little plain leotard with like a little rainbow, no. We have to do the whole thing, you know, and so that's why, with the trans flag in it, it's important, it needs to be on there. So I'm, it's, it's gonna make me emotional too, so lets [unclear]

Blake: Oh God, this meet by the way, because this episode will get released the week of February 21st because when you're, when people are listening to this episode, that pride meet will be this upcoming Friday. It's 8:30 our time, 6:30 your time, so we're so excited to watch that.

Sirena: I'm really excited to have, also you have set a bar now so we can even put a picture of that leo and our little 'How to do a Pride Meet' document and be like, look Arizona did it.

Blake: Oh yeah, it is 100% going in that document

Sirena: I'm really proud of our school and I'm proud of the people that are in it because this is, it's hard to do things like this and to take that jump, and say f the criticism f what anybody else thinks, you know, we're doing it, unapologetically as we should and I'm so excited that we can say now, officially Arizona has the first pride meet in its books and two years ago, I don't think anybody would have expected that, so

Blake: No, definitely not. And it's still, I think that it's gonna take me seeing it before I'm like, *oh this is happening*. That meet's gonna be against Utah. Utah, we found out as we're recording today that Utah is also doing their own pride meet and I think, I know for sure, we have said on the podcast Utah will never do one. And we would have totally said the same thing about Arizona

Kino: Would we have?

Blake:Yeah, because it's in Arizona. Not because of anything to do with the culture of the actual school, but it's just is in Arizona, so that piece of getting institution to sign on to stuff gets really hard.

Sirena: Yeah, it's a big deal and I think it's good that we have everything intertwined together because it's not, I said, it's not just, *we're throwing a rainbow and a leotard and take it as it is* like, no, this is a pride meet. We're celebrating our community and it's not just us, it's our entire university backing us, so it's very special,

Kino: That's so important

Sirena: It's really exciting to see these types of meets happen because once you have one person who's comfortable coming out, you know, it's kind of your Trailblazer, so hopefully we'll start seeing that trail kind of light up

Blake: Yeah, I hope so too. Yeah, when people have experienced that, when we have experienced an environment where everybody is actively celebrating this part of themselves for the first time. I think a lot of people, they go to their first pride and then they come out, or they do drag for the first time and then they come out all sorts of things and you're making that happen for people

Sirena: Yeah I've experienced it firsthand and I'm not gonna sit here and you know, say this person and this person, but I think that having people come up to me and say, *hey, you've made me feel comfortable with who I am, you've made me not question myself anymore, you've, you know, you've had the courage on our team to come out or you've had the courage and just as a gymnast in general, as a person general, as a woman in general to come out, really made me be accepting of myself*

I think that literally made me tear up, you know, so, and I'm sure with anybody who, you know, our community, it's emotional and it's a big deal and to make people feel important. We're able to have that impact on people

Kino: And we've talked [extensively about], just the culture of, in the past, you know, when we started this podcast, we talked about we'll probably never have. I think, you know, I talked about we'll never have a variety of you know, any part of the acronym. These gymnasts where it's mostly, we know that there are some out gay men, but a lot of them are you know retired or something that, and that just kind of has to do with the culture of gymnastics that we've seen in general and then we've had this explosion in the last two years.

So I guess my question is like, have you seen any challenges for yourself or anyone else, your own personal experience, you don't have to go in too deep, that you attribute, what are the challenges do you think of being LGBTQ+ in the gymnastics community?

Sirena: I think in general our community is stigmatized and that's not anything new. It goes with being uneducated as well, I mean we're young people in our community and if you're in our community, as in the gymnastics world. Some of those girls come from, I mean our sport is predominantly white. Predominantly high income, I'm not gonna say too much about that, but I think that it does play a factor in people and their leaders, their values and you know, their opinions so it can play a factor in people and wanting to be accepting or just learn and not, I don't know, be adamant about their own specific ideas so

I think it's like, it's hard for anybody to feel fully comfortable. Like I said when I was younger, I was like, oh my God, nevermind. [unclear: I wouldn't bring that up again?]

Kino: I mean don't worry, I've discussed the demographics of gymnastics and how that affects the LGBTQ+ community in gymnastics extensively on this podcast, because people are always like, what do you think it was? Like, let me tell you the reasons

Sirena: And being a person of color. I mean that in general regardless of you know,

Kino: Right

Sirena: [Being] LGBTQ+, being a person of color in the gymnastics community is also just its own battle so [unclear], and there's a lot of us too, that's hard, very, very hard, but you gotta, you gotta start somewhere.

Blake: Yeah. We, I am also very curious the being a first generation Mexican American gymnast piece of it

Kino: Because we've tried to talk about that too

Sirena: That's how much I can talk about with that and I've never, if I'm gonna talk about it, I'm going to talk about it with you guys and

Kino: Yeah, go for it

Blake: Yeah, what the heck has that been like?

Sirena: I have never, never once publicly said this, but. I don't wanna get emotional and I want you to keep this in here because I want to make this something that's known because I think it's important. My dad actually got deported about four years ago now.

Blake: Wow.

Sirena: Back to Mexico. And he was here in the United States and he was, you know, kind of in and out of my life, and him and I are really close but that just due to his own [unclear] and my mom and you know I grew up with the kind of chaotic family, and that's okay, and recently yeah, he had gotten deported back and that's had a huge impact on me as you can imagine.

So really understanding my hispanic heritage has been really crucial for me, especially after that, because him being an immigrant, him being here in the United States, he was kind of under this impression that ok we need to like whitewashing. We need to put you in the best school, with the with predominantly white people because that's how you're gonna be successful, you need to go and be in the white sport.

Blake: Yeah

Sirena: Where you can be successful, you need to be and I don't mean to say this in any sort of rude way, but that's just his mindset was, you know, white means you're going to be successful, you won't be oppressed and that's that's not being rude, that's facts. Growing up, he kind of, I'm not gonna say he hid my hispanic identity but he also didn't celebrate it as I wish he would have when I was younger because he was *oh we're in America now the American dream, you make money, you, you go to work, you go to school, all of that*, so being from very young, he was like, you're going to college, period, you know, you're going to go to college, you will be the first one to do it.

He always told me that and I knew that, so when this happened it was kind of like, *well damn*. Do I even go to college now? That was my question because for a long time I had to decide like, am I gonna stay here and I have grandparents here, luckily, am I going to stay here with my grandparents, finish out school and go to college or am I going to go to Mexico with him and that was a legit question, that was a legit decision I had made and I decided, you know, I'm going to follow the career that I want to do. I want to go to college, I want to be the first one to do it, I promised him I would do that, so I did. And [pauses] it was hard for me to go through that, and not be able to see him for a long time, he can't come back over here and see me, he's never been to a gymnastics meet, he's never been to my apartment, he's never been to my dorm, he's never been to the arena that I compete in like, that's hard.

And I feel a lot of people don't realize the impact that having your family physically separated from you has. And it's been something that I've been navigating since that. And luckily we're in an era where we have this social media, this technology. But yeah, that's something that I've never spoken about and I want to make it known because I'm sure there's other people going through what I'm going through. Maybe not at the collegiate level, I don't know. But like -

Blake: I've had so many students, I've had so many students.

Sirena: I just feel people look at me and they're like, okay, that's a white girl. And it's not, I'm Mexican American. I'm hispanic. My dad lives in Juarez, which is across from El Paso in Texas. I go and visit him all the time. I walk across the border. Like, and I hate when people stripped that away from me. Because once he got to Mexico and I really was like, okay, we're doing this, You know, we go over there and you know, we live, he's living his best life in Mexico now and that's perfectly fine and really just learning my identity as a Mexican too. And that's, that's been a lot of fun.

And uh, and I'm not saying I didn't know anything. But it's different. You know, [unclear, outside?] America is Americanized too. So that's a whole another thing. But I had like, people look at me now and don't think that I have been through it, and I'm not saying that they need to, but I'm saying that like, imagine people knowing now like, oh my gosh, her dad literally got deported and she's out here still getting college education, still doing gymnastics. Still breaking barriers and that's something I'm really proud of and I want my dad to be inspired by that, to not let crap like that stop him.

Blake: And when I think about the gymnasts that I coach, because I coach a little bit, I live in a predominantly immigrant area, It could be any of those kids. it could be any of the kids that I coach who this happens to. Coaches are fooling themselves that they don't think this is going to be one of their gymnasts eventually. People who are going to be on teams with people, who are gonna have a job and work with people, people just need to have heard this from a person who's gone through it and your, thank you for sharing it with us. I don't think that we've heard this from a collegiate gymnast before that I know of,

Kino: We have not, as far as, I say that so confidently

Blake: That I can recall

Sirena: I hope not. I don't wish it on anyone, but it's a reality like you said, and people don't realize, until they're put in a situation where either it happens to you or it happens near you, it's not real. It doesn't exist.

Kino: And the reality is it's a fear for so many people too

Sirena: It tears me apart. It literally, when I see stuff on the news, families being separated, little kids being held in Immigration hold, parents being held in immigration hold, parents being sent away. It it bothers me so much to know that I was literally once in their shoes and luckily it wasn't 6, 7, 8 years old. I was kind of clueless. But I don't know if that makes it easier or harder.

Kino: Right. I mean, Yeah.

Sirena: And then I'm reminded about every every single day, you know my dad can't come to see my meet. I mean I'm not saying that you know if, you move across country they go and watch the PAC 12 or whatever. But it's literally he can't

Kino: But there is a literal barrier.

Sirena: Yeah. And I'm reminded of it when I walk across it to go see him.

Kino: You know you can walk across the border to see him but he can't walk across to see you.

Blake: Yeah. I just can't, I truly can't imagine. What it feels to walk back

Sirena: I mean I feel I'm such a optimistic and happy person. So I'm not gonna sit here and like sob to you. But it's hard.

Blake: Yeah.

Sirena: He's living his best life now and that's all that matters.

Blake: Yeah, I'm really glad that he's

Kino: Doing well.

Blake: Yeah, in a situation where he's okay and that you get to see him. And I'm also so angry that anyone felt that was the thing that made sense for anyone. Like, what have we accomplished here? You know? Like I just -

Kino: Right.

Blake: I just don't, I just don't ...

Sirena: Yeah, it makes me angry too. And I said, this is my first time talking about it. So I'm sure at some point it may be brought up again and I'm completely fine and comfortable with talking about it because I want to, and I want to be that person like, hey, *I'm this person and this happened to me. Like, is that a surprise to you? Probably*

Blake: Yeah, I think that's such an important part of the conversation too, but that people perceive you as white and that that comes with all of the these other assumptions too about what you have and haven't experienced. There's going to be so many kids and also just grown adults who are listening who have been like, *oh my God, I cannot believe this person who I look up to and who is doing the thing that I really enjoy, that is doing the thing that I want to do has gone through this too*, that's gonna be a really big deal for people

Sirena: I've done other podcasts before, but it's never been something that

1. I've been like, hey, this is the time to say it and
2. I'm literally having a podcast with the University of Arizona, the last thing they want to do is make it a sob story, you know?

I don't want to, but I'm also like, well when is the best time to tell people, I'm already in my junior year, you know, I, this has been something that's been a part of me since it happened, but I've been looking I guess, for the best time to say it because it's not that I've been hiding it. It's not that I don't want that, because it is a part of me.

Blake: Yeah,

Sirena: But to not let people know for the sake of me, but more so for the sake of someone to look up to you, I guess, or someone to just relate to.

Blake: Yeah. And I think to some extent too, as somebody to give a f*** that this happened to. Like, I don't understand how people see stuff on the news and don't see that as this could be my friend or my family member or whatever. But that I think about it in terms of reminds me of the UCLA thing a little bit and just that it's different, as all the stuff is going on at UCLA watching that next meet felt different. Like when you know stuff, it feels, it feels different and you've always been competing with this context, but now people will know, and I think it's just gonna mean exactly you were saying. You want people to know that you've been able to get through this and also that doesn't mean it wasn't hard.

And it is hard, it's still hard and it's gonna be hard forever. And I don't think a lot of people who aren't really ingrained in immigrant communities have ever really put any thought to the fact that you had to, that you were legitimately in a position of making this choice of do I go with him or do I do this thing that I've been working so hard towards um, and all the baggage that comes with that and that he was the one encouraging you to do it in the first place, that is just such a hard spot to be in.

Kino: And there's and there's no middle choice, there is no compromise, you know?

Sirena: No, but I think I'm lucky enough to also go to a university that is semi close to him. I mean I can drive six hours um, which is, it's pretty convenient. As an athlete, you know, you don't get to see your family that much anyway so I really try to just look at it as I'm not, I mean, it's different because you can stay with international people. You can argue that it's kind of the same thing but at the end of the day those people, their parents can buy tickets to come, you know if they really wanted to, you know

Blake: And every part of it was it was a choice. They chose to come, right?

Kino: Yeah the barrier isn't something that's, like the barrier can be financial, it can be distance but it's not something that

Sirena: The government?

[cross speak]

Kino: How else do you say? The literal government.

Sirena: I just want to say for the record, I don't ever want to make anything a sob story. Like I said I'm a very optimistic person and yeah, sh** is hard but we all go through it. So yeah. In some other way any other way.

Blake: And I don't think it reads as a sob story either. I think it's, we have to talk about all of these experiences and identities that in particular the gymnastics community and also sports communities and also just America have tried to a erase. Very intentionally tried to erase, that when you have voices yours where the literal government and a stupidly large percentage of the population don't want you to be saying a thing. It's probably because it needs to be said

Sirena: I've done so many hispanic heritage videos and stuff with the university but it's never been something I was like, hey, so you actually don't talk about some real shit, it's just *I'm Mexican*. Yay! and it's like, that's it.

Blake: like also it's also that that is also a

Sirena: thing it's

Blake: It's also that, it's also a thing. And your fu***** dad got deported. That, you know those things are both a part of that experience and are both tied to that identity. I think where we so often miss the mark is stopping before we get there and only doing the first part.

Kino: Like only celebrate this part and not talk about

Blake: but not have the conversations that are necessary for actual change

Sirena: Like yeah, okay, let's celebrate this. But then also talk about all of the things that come with that. It's not just we talk so much about celebrating, but we don't necessarily want to have the hard conversations about what that also can be

Blake: What those actual lived experiences are, and the impacts of policy

Sirena: It's crazy because girls on my own team, I know that my class definitely, they all know and obviously when I came in as freshmen, that was a big thing that I was struggling with for a long time. And moving forward when we did get a new freshman class and then now I'm junior, another freshman class, those girls, it's never been a conversation or topic that's like, come up. So it's like when I do go to Mexico or I do try and talk to my dad over FaceTime or they ask like, you know, why haven't we ever met your parents or anything that? I haven't sat down and been like, okay, so this happened to me, you know, because like, what do you do with that? You know?

So it's been interesting and I know that those girls, I've had a freshman come up to me and say like, well we were in conversation just like, *well I know you've been through a lot of things and we all know we can go to you for advice and stuff* and I'm like, yeah, but what do you actually know?

Kino: That's fair

Sirena: I'm not saying that in a bad way, but it's more so like, hey, I know the juniors know, and I know that maybe some of the sophomores know, but this is something that actually, I think that I'm such a big person on education that I think educating these people and being like, *I'm somebody who's been who's been, unfortunately someone has been impacted by this*

Blake: Yeah. yeah, no. Those personal connections to people make a huge difference and hearing everything we've heard about your team so far, I'm glad that I don't feel I need to be worried about how people are gonna respond.

Sirena: No. And I think that that's been the greatest thing is how supporting, not only my team has been, but parents who do know as well, you know. Like, *hey, we know you're, you know, we're at, we're at a away meet and my parents are telling you hi, you know, go and say hi to my parents, go hug them* or even were at home meet and I have grandparents who come, sometimes, I have my and uncle who come and visit and come to the meets, but it's different. I mean it's not my mom and dad, but I know that it means a lot to me when my teammates are like, *hey, we're going out to dinner after, do you want to come?*. That means a lot to me and their parents saying, you know, *We love you. You're family, the gymnastics family*, you know, so

Blake: Yeah, in the same way that they would just like, I think if everybody just knew someone's parents couldn't afford to come to anything. That you just wrap them up and you take people in.

We're going to take a quick break and come back with some fun gymnastics questions. In the meantime, I just wanted to point folks to a couple of resources. We'll have links to all of these things in the episode description. One is the Detention Watch network, which describes themselves as a national coalition, building power through collective advocacy, grassroots organizing and strategic communications to abolish immigration detention in the United States.

We also have kind stands for KIND which stands for Kids In Need of Defense, which focuses on supporting kids who have been separated from their parents in the immigration process. We also have the Immigration Justice Campaign as well as the National Immigration Project. Those are primarily focused on providing legal support to folks who are in the process of facing deportation, who have family members facing deportation and they can help to provide access to the legal services that you need and deserve in that situation.
'
And then we also have the National Immigrant Justice Center which also help folks to access legal services. And I do want to point out to National Immigration Center does have a specific page for support for LGBTQ+ immigrants as well.

And so please, if you can check out these organizations, if you're able to support them financially, please consider doing so and a huge part of looking through these organizations and trying to find these resources, so much of what they're looking for, besides folks who can help to provide legal support, is folks who are willing to start conversations and people who are willing to volunteer their time and their voices to help bring awareness to the reality of what is actually happening with deportation in the United States.

So we'll be back in just a moment with some fun questions with Sirena, but I just wanted to take a pause and make sure that if folks wanted to help do something that you had some resources to do that.

*****

Blake: Okay, so do we want some just fun, yay woo hoo, gymnastics questions?

Sirena: Yeah that's fine

Blake: Great. This is half curiosity and half because you're on my fantasy team, Do you still train the vault and floor?

Sirena: Oh my gosh, I've gotten this question a lot too and I was actually recruited to Arizona for vault and beam

Blake/Kino: Oh!

Sirena: Yeah, but I've also had two knee surgeries. So during my freshman year I was training vault and training beam and I talked about this in another podcast, but basically I was just saying how I put on my grips one day and I was kind of like, *I want to swing bars* and then eventually, I made my way to bar lineup sort of thing. But with that, I kind of dismiss myself from vault, partly because of my knees too, but over quarantine my freshman year when stuff got shut down, I trained floor for a while and it's something that I've been wanting to do and I've kind of been butting heads with my coaches about it just because they're like, *hey, we need you for bars and beam, we need you to be healthy and competing. We don't want any issues with your knee, so we're just gonna hold off on that* So the answer is no, I don't train vault and floor, but I'm still fighting for floor so maybe I can try to make my way senior year.

Kino: Don't do something dangerous. The floor has been dangerous.

Sirena: I know I've seen all the - , [laughs quietly] it's not funny, but yeah, no, it's that's another fear of mine too, because of that. They need some more research with that

Blake: So much. I'm glad people are talking about it and calling for Achilles research

Sirena: And Georgia's floor, they need to change

Blake: Something. Something.

[Laughing]

Blake: Because I saw their floor in real life, and there were issues, but I wasn't scared.

Kino: Wait, when did you see Georgia's floor in person?

Blake: Not their physical floor, but them doing floor.

Kino: Oh! I was just like ...

Blake: No, not their physical floor

Sirena: [Was anyone] just like, jumping on it, saying this feels different or no? No? That's what I'm curious about

Blake: Yeah I thought that too

Kino: Like the floor from Montreal

Blake: That was my first thought was like, there's something wrong with this and then yeah, I didn't hear anything and if anything, I actually saw people being like, *no, it was fine. It was us*. Okay? Look, I am a vault/floor person, so I'm like, that would be so lovely but okay they really do need you on bars and beam

Kino: See, I am a bars/beam person, so I'm just like, you know what, stay where you are. That's where I to sit at a gymnastics meet actually,

Sirena: I have so much fun on floor though

Sirena: You can be, sassy, all of it

Blake: You've got the personality. What would your, if you had to pick floor music, if you woke up and you were in that nightmare of like, I have to do a floor routine, but I haven't had anything prepared. What would your floor music be?

Sirena: I like Bad Bunny, instrumental Bad Bunny or something?

Blake: I like that answer.

Sirena: I don't think we've had any gymnasts have that either, so that'd be cool.

Blake: I don't think so. Do you have any favorite skills to do, even ones we don't usually get to see from you?

Sirena: Um, on bars I have been training Rays, I've been training a Maloney. I actually used to do a Maloney-Pac and I think I'm really gonna try to get that back for next season. Or at least the Maloney-bail. I do double layout full outs, um, on beam I do the Danusia, I think that's how you say her name, her sideways side aerial.

You can see that on my Instagram. I do have one video from a long time ago, but my coach is not a fan of it. She does not like it because it's scary, but one of my old series was a side arial lay, so I've been sometimes I'll just do that for fun, but most of the time I'm just in there doing the routines I compete.

Blake: Fun. The double back full out got me.

Sirena: Yeah, it's a fun skill. It's just, at the end of a routine. And on top of that -

Blake: There is that

Sirena: I just get nervous sometime about twisting, and like it's the end, then my knee and ... ahhh. So, it's definitely like, a solid skill for me. But -

Blake: Yeah, and you know if you can get your difficulty other ways, you know why be twisting?

Kino: Your knees!

Okay, so one of your goals is to get into the floor lineup, maybe? For senior year. Do you have any other goals, or for funsies?

 Sirena: Other goals for senior year? Honestly, I'm focusing on this year right now

 Kino: That's a good attitude. I like it.

 Sirena: I am on the right track for beam, I think I've gotten my footing now, last year is a little crazy, kind of got back into it at the end. And I'm just trying to go off of that and I really want to be an All-American. I think that's a dream of mine for beam and I think it's realistic, and I feel like if I just keep on doing what I'm doing things will come into place.

I think if I get a 9.95 we should be good, at least. I know we have so many 10s and 9.975s right now. Honestly, sometimes I feel it's hard on beam, specifically for that reason, but -

Blake: There's a lot, they also have not updated your career highs yet on the website.

Sirena: I just recently got a 9.925

Blake: Oh, I remember

Sirena: I don't know, I think that's a big goal of mine. I think that's anybody's goal, if not, like PAC-12 honors, I definitely want to hit that 9.95+ mark, obviously that's been a goal, that's been a goal of mine since I was a freshman, after I got a 9.9. And for bars, bars is bars. I just like competing for the team and getting a team score. High of my career is a 9.85. I need to change -

Kino: That is a respectable score to contribute to your team.

Sirena: I think that for what I'm doing right now ,it's good. Hopefully next year we can get some other skills put in there to get me where I want to be

Blake: Bars is hard, was gonna be my analysis. So that's my take. Yeah, those 9.8s and 9.85s on bars have been more than sufficient in saving my entire whole fantasy lineup several times.

Kino: What would you want to tell any young LGBTQ+ gymnasts that are out in the world? What, is there anything you want them to know? Any advice you would give them, and also any young Mexican American gymnasts, what do you want them to know? Or ones who fall into the same, like that are just like you? Is there anything you want to share? Any wisdom?

Sirena: Just to keep being yourself, be unapologetically you. I say that for anybody, not just the categories that I represent. In general, that's a great statement. Just be you. Don't change anything, and run with it. It got me this far, and it could get you this far or even farther!

Blake: There you go! You have been delightful. I'm so excited for people to get to hear this and hear from you. Hopefully we get to run into you before you graduate.

Sirena: I hope so

Blake: Thank you so much for being here. We're so excited to watch the pride meet this weekend.

Sirena: Yes, thank you so much for having me. I'm so excited.

Blake: Yay! You're awesome.

Kino: You're amazing.

Blake: Thank you for listening to this episode. If you want to follow Sirena on social media, she is @SirenaLinton.

You can find us on Twitter/Instagram/Facebook as well @HIHOPodcast. Those platforms also have our link tree which will take you to our Patreon, our TeePublic store and all the ways to listen to the podcast, as well as, officially as of yesterday we have transcripts available for some of our episodes. We're working through and getting them all done, but we have the transcript from our last episode with Connor and Anna as well as some of our earlier interviews that are ready to go as well. So if you are looking for transcripts, those will be helpful for you or if you know anyone who would find those helpful, please share that and we'll continue to put those up. Thank you so much to our friend Mia for helping with those. Thanks again for listening and we will be back soon with another awesome interview. We're very excited for all of these, you guys. People have been really, really awesome so we will see you soon, have a great day!

[Outro Music: Din Daa Daa (Dub), Song by George Kranz]
Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe Doe
(Bah!) Din Daa Daa, Doe Doe

Links Mentioned:
- Detention Watch Network: https://www.detentionwatchnetwork.org/
- KIND (Kids in Need of Defense): https://supportkind.org/
- Immigration Justice Campaign: https://immigrationjustice.us/
- National Immigration Project: https://www.nationalimmigrationproject.org/
- National Immigrant Justice Center: https://immigrantjustice.org/

If you have any feedback on episode transcripts, please let us know at halfinhalfoutpodcast@gmail.com or reach out directly to @MiaEAtkinson on Twitter or mia.e.atkinson@gmail.com.
