
Jackson: well just because there's nobody else ever that has been like you, you can't see anyone that's like you doesn't mean you still can't do it because I remember growing up and like watching like the olympic trials and seeing like nobody was like me, nobody was like, doing gymnastics like me, but I'm here, I'm queer, I'm ready to go. Let's do it

Kino: Welcome to Half In Half Out, the only LGBTQ+ gymnastics podcast. I'm Kino and today we are bringing you an interview with Jackson Harrison from Arizona State University. We've actually had this interview in our back pockets for a while. We recorded it back in February, but we've had a lot happening in the gymnastics world obviously during March and April so we just kind of waited for the right moment to release it. We really loved talking to Jackson and we think you'll really enjoy this interview. Also today, the podcast, End of Sport released an episode where Blake and I were interviewed, we got a chance to talk about our favorite thing, obviously LGBTQ+ gymnastics with them and we really appreciate them having us on and we'll put a link to that episode below. Please go give them a listen, they're great podcast and please don't forget we have new merch in our T-Public store, specifically the Morgan Hurd's favorite podcast shirt, which donates 50% of the proceeds to the Asian Mental Health Collective, which is the charity of Morgan's choice but without further ado, here's our interview with Jackson, we hope you enjoy.

Blake: So hi, good to see you.

Jackson: Nice to meet you guys. This is the craziest thing I've ever done, I think

Kino: This is so exciting.

Blake: This is fully nothing. And we're just like two weirdos in our separate houses trying to like get our dogs to shut up. So you're, you're good

Kino: Yeah

Blake: So full disclosure. I knew that you were a gymnast. I think that you replied to something about me doing gymnastics. I didn't realize that you were like, and then you bought our merch and I was like, it's a gymnast shirt. Cool. I didn't realize you were like a gym, like going to college

Kino: full blown

Blake: Until you were like at college. Like, okay,

Jackson: Yeah, like the mens gymnastic world is like so underground. It's like a little weird.

Kino: It truly is.

Blake: I just thought of you as like, a Twitter person and you're like on a college team. I was like, oh hey, that's my buddy. So it's been really cool to, to see you there. How has it been so far? First year at Arizona State University, I had to like look 15 times. Which Arizona.

Jackson: Yes. ASU. I love it here. I'm from like the Northeast, so like coming down to the desert. It's like The craziest thing ever. Like it's 69° right now and it's six p.m. in February. Like it's crazy and like the team is just so supportive and the fact that I'm like, living on my own is all I could have asked for like, I just am so happy here. I love it.

Blake: Did you like get there then, like well you got there amongst covid time.

Jackson: Yes, I got moved here in the middle of august so it was like in the middle of everything

Blake: Yeah. And like hot, crazy. Probably

Jackson: Yeah

Blake: How does that work, moving? Like I was gonna say across but like down in the country I guess like in covid time.

Jackson: Um I mean me and my mom were like in the airplane like masked up like wiping down the airplane seats with disinfectant wipes. I mean I got tested as soon as I got here, she got tested as soon as she got back. It was weird. There wasn't a lot of people here. It was very empty. Like downtown Phoenix where I first lived was like deserted. There was like nobody ever there. And it was like the weirdest thing because it was in the middle of the city too so

Blake: right, and you're just like, I bet this is got people in it normally

Jackson: there's gotta be someone here. I mean,

Blake: so how how has it been for you since you got there, started on the team? I don't know when you like started training and like started school, how's all that been so far

Jackson: like with covid?

Blake: Yeah. And just like in general

Jackson: It's been a little weird just because like all my classes are online right now. Like I go to, I go to campus. Like, I don't know every other week now for one class, so I'm not really getting like the college experience I guess, but I mean like with the team it's nice that like I have the team because I have like almost like a built in like a group of people that I know I can trust and I know that they're like my friends and stuff, so it's nice to have that because like, I feel like if I moved here and I wasn't on the gymnastics team, I would have like I would have no friends and it would just be boring, so I mean it's good to know that I have like a group of people that support me, so

Kino: I'm glad you have that.

Blake: Me too.

Kino: So you're a freshman, what are you interested in studying, if you have not declared a major?

Jackson: I am studying sports science and performance programming, so it's basically just sports science and like, how to make people stronger and like, how to do that the best way possible and I want to be a coach and I'm actually coaching right now too, I am the, I don't know how to describe it, but like I'm a competitive coach at the gym we train at, I coach the Excel girls team

Blake: Oh cool

Kino: That's so cool, I'm in education, so I'm always very interested about what the gymnasts are actually studying, you know, you're also in school for an education as I always say, I mean I think that more coaches should be studying, like that type of thing. Like I don't think you should just like, you can just become a coach obviously and you can learn on the job, but it's nice to actually have like the science to back up what you're doing.

Jackson: Yeah. Just to know that what I'm doing is like, the best way to like make my athletes better athletes, and like better people without like damaging them because that's

Kino: Exactly, I know that's like, I don't know, I'm not a parent, but I think about like, I remember once saying on facebook, somebody was like, what gym should I take my kids do for like little kids gymnastics and I was like, look, you can't just ask the internet what gym you should go to their needs to be way more research and I don't care if we're talking little kids all the way up to like your competitive kids,

Blake: Level 10

Kino: Like you wanted to go all the way down. I don't know. Yeah, I think we should have more coaches or doing

Blake: actually studying the thing

Kino: yeah, actually studying the thing or at least having more people in the gym who have studied those things.

Blake: Yeah. How did you like figure out that that's what you wanted to do?

Jackson: So I coached, I started coaching rec, like recreational gymnastics when I was a freshman in high school or a sophomore in high school and I did that up until Covid hit and I slowly became like something I enjoy doing more and more. And like every day I go to the gym, like right after school and I'd be like, all right now, I get to teach kids how to do gymnastics and we get to like have fun and eventually realized like this is all I want to do. Like, I just want to like do gymnastics and like spend time with kids and make them happy and like teach them how to do fun things and like, and then I started to like see myself as a coach instead of like as a gymnast and I was like, whoa, that's, that's a little weird. And I was like, well, I guess this is what I'm doing now. So

Blake: yeah, I mean it's kind of perfect though. Like I think a lot of, I usually tell freshmen like I would prefer you to be undecided unless you like actually have done the thing and fell in love with it. Like then it's like, oh yeah, you just are one of the lucky people who like got to find at least like the first thing you're gonna do. You know

Kino: Also Blake always says that. And then I always clarify, I went into college decided and I graduated the same major.

Blake: Yeah, You're just, you're just the statistical, like you're the minority,

Kino: Although I was not an education.

Blake: It's usually hard. Like a lot of the time you have to go to school for at least like part of your degree before you get to like really have any real experience doing the thing and you just said kids like, do you want to stick with working with kids at least right now? Like is that kind of the goal is to like stay in like, rather than being like a college coach I guess.

Jackson: I'm not 100% sure. I do love working with kids and even like, I did think about being a teacher, but I don't think I could do the whole like being in school and like desk thing. Like, I don't think I could do it. I'm too like, like movement. Like I just

Kino: just teaching is a very active thing. Trust me

Jackson: the paperwork and the grading and like can't say that's for me. So

Kino: no, I mean grading is terrible.

Blake: So we've talked to 1, 2 ... two depends how you count a couple, of MAG folks before. But you're the first like college MAG athlete who is like out while they're competing that we've talked to and like, there haven't been a ton of, y'all, like, people tend to come out after.

Jackson: I mean there's like, it's like me, Sam Phillips from Nebraska who is out as bi and then like one of my teammates, his name is Blake, you know, he is out and he is, yeah, so it's like the 3 of us.

Blake: I like, I don't, I really don't know of any more either like because people tell us stuff all the time but like I don't even think I know of any

Kino: But you know, it's, the thing is like in my brain there's so many more. Like in my brain and like the idea of MAG, No that's not what I mean. I just mean

Blake: like the stereotype of MAG

Kino: Right, like when we started this podcast we talked about, we're like yeah there's out MAG gymnasts but there's not out WAG gymnasts and that's just ...

Blake: and then all we've talked to is WAG people

Kino: and then all we've talked to is WAG people but like you know, Yeah, but I think you're right, people come out after college. Also, can I ask a question about men's college gymnastics? Why are your teams so big?

Jackson: Well

Blake: it's a good question.

Kino: Dear god

Jackson: Our team is like really big because we're technically, we are a club team but we're like, we still compete with the D1 team. So we have like our D1 team which is the gold team which is like, I'm like teetering on and off of like I'm on the brink of being on gold, and then we have maroon which is like the NAIGC Club team that will compete like NAIGC Nationals and stuff

Kino: Okay but still,

Blake: So it's double the people

Kino: And I looked, and I was like oh my God, like is this because you have more events?

Jackson: Yes I know like the other like the D1 teams are like normal size they're like 18 to 20 people

Kino: That's still a lot!

Blake: That's still a lot of people considering how few scholarships there are though. Yeah that's a lot of people and not a lot of like that's the like athletes on the team per full scholarship ratio is like it's closer to D2.

Jackson: MAG gets like 6.7 scholarships For a team and then there's like 11 teams.

Blake: Yeah I knew it was six point something because um one of the coaches at my current gym computed for Michigan and he was like, you know people have like 0.1 or like .25 scholarship, they have like 1% scholarships and I was like what you all doing?

Jackson: I have heard that they'll get like academic and then like the rest of it will be covered like by athletics so it's not like so like you can have .75 of his scholarship and then the other 25% is like because like I have like a partial academic here and then we since we're club we don't have scholarship at all. So

Blake: it's really cool that you guys still get to compete Like with the D1 teams.

Jackson: Oh yeah we have like a separate division it's called like Gym act which is like it's almost like a Division 2 I guess or 2 or 3 because we don't really have we have one division three team so it's like almost a separate division. And then like I know my head coach Scott Barkley, he created it like a while ago when ASU shut down the men's program when they kicked them off campus in like the 90s. So he's just been trying to build that up a lot and like we've had like three teams be added this year which is like amazing because it's just it's such a disappointment to know that like so many people aren't going to get to compete in college when they're like really good at gymnastics and they're just there isn't enough places

Kino: I mean can I be frank? Like what are the other D1 teams going to say, no we can't compete? Like you only have so many schools you can compete against don't you want all the schools you can compete against as much as you can. There's what how many? There's like what? 15? That's not correct but it's close

Jackson: I think there are 14 D1 teams but then Iowa's done after this year, William and Mary got restated so I think they're good and then Minnesota got cut

Kino: right I know we heard about a lot of that, especially during covid that teams and it's like I've tried to explain to people before I'm like yeah it's a weird situation where like typically between the two, no offense, but like WAG, of the two, is the more money making team and generally, you know, that doesn't happen too often and people are like, but what about men's? I'm like, there used to be men's and then people don't pay attention but mens is really cool. I like MAG.

Jackson: Yes. Me too.

Kino: Look, let me tell you, I'm like the weird person. I want to watch pommels. I love watching pommels. I'm sorry. It's because flares are cool and y'all are hating.

Jackson: They are, flares are cool, but it just makes me nervous and shaking.

Blake: Yeah, same. I yeah, same with rings for me. Like the other day I was at adult gym and there we had more guys than usual, like some new guys that showed up and the guys who had been, who had been like level sevens, eights nines and tens, I went over to the rings and I was like, I'll stay over here on beam, Thank you very much. And then another guy came and he looked at me and then looked at the other two guys and like looked at me and then went over to rings and I was like, it's fine. I've been here, the person who was like, let me find this group of women my whole life, like it's fine. I will stay on this beam. Yeah. So before we get you into the like, queerness in the sport stuff, I know you have like he/they pronouns on some stuff and like 'queer' on some stuff. But like what words do you use to talk about sexual orientation and gender identity?

Jackson: So up until like, I don't know, like three months ago, I was just like gay. Like I'm I'm gay and that's like how everyone knew me. Like everyone calls me he, which is that's totally fine. I'm super comfortable with that. But then I remember standing in line up at practice one day and my coaches, like we're men, he was like some talk about men or something and I was like, I don't really like that. I just, that doesn't make me feel good. And then I started like this self discovery of like, I have never liked that. Like every time someone is like, oh, we're the men can be with the men, boys. I'm like, oh, that doesn't, I don't like that doesn't fit with me Well. So then I was like, well, I guess like I'm not a man, but I'm also, I'm not a woman. I feel like I'm like, just like a person, you know what I mean? So now like I like the term queer better just because it's not like gender specific. Like I feel like gay is like gay man. And I'm just like queer, but like gay is still fine. He's still fine. Like I'm still like a masculine presenting person, which is that's just who I am. But so I mean queer, gay, he/him, they/them, she/her anything else?

Blake: We love to see it.

Kino: Apologies for just throwing around 'men's gymnastics' like 30 seconds ago

Jackson: That's what it's called. So I mean

Kino: I know, but it's like

Blake: Yeah, whenever we're making our graphics for stuff like that, I kept finding myself going to be like, these upcoming like women's gymnastics competitions and I was like, nope, like, I guess I'll put like 'WAG' and I just wish that there was a different way, like the four event people in the six event people

Kino: because the only overlap is vault and floor

Jackson: men and women.

Kino: Right? It's not, you're not competing the same events. They are two different sports and like, yeah, there's the overlap of vault and floor, but like,

Blake: Like it's never just been male people or people who identify as men competing in MAG and it's never just been AFAB people and women competing in WAG. Like that's never been true. It's just that like you're the first person who was like, has the vocabulary for it and is like willing to say it on a podcast, which didn't exist.

Jackson: Yeah.

Blake: You know? You also though like, and we've talked about this Randy Lane just asked us like, what have you learned from doing this podcast And one of the things that I said was that there's a lot more like people who are out, who are coming out and like I ever thought would in this like The year that we started it and that most of those people were out as something like in high school, like Y'all who are like 17, 18 and 19 have like such a different relationship with your own queerness, and like so much different access to vocabulary where I was like when I was your age, I was like just figuring out the trans people, like that binary trans people were a thing.

Jackson: Yeah.

Blake: And then you're just like, I'm gonna take these team photos and they're gonna be fabulous.

Jackson: Yes, I started coming out to you. Oh wait, get this. I came out the day the for the first time, the day before they legalized gay marriage in the whole country

Blake: No Way

Kino: oh my goodness

Jackson: my best friend at the time over text, I texted her to come out so it's been a while

Blake: How did it go? It has been a while, but to me that is not a while, I just realized that to you it is, to me it's like that was so recent. Right? How is how did that go?

Jackson: She was surprised, which I don't, like, I was like, I'm kind of surprised that she was surprised because I kind of like, I like I knew I was gay for like, you know my entire life, you know, like I was running around in dresses of a three year old, like I was gay. So I mean I was a little bit surprised that she was surprised that she was like oh okay, I didn't yeah, it never changed anything like when I came out to her and then I came out to a couple of my friends at the time and they were like oh okay cool, so, that was super.

Kino: sometimes, don't you just want people to be like yeah duh,

Jackson: oh I just, I knew people were gonna say that, so I was like just say it, just say okay, yep, we know

Kino: like I've had people be like oh were you surprised? And some people are like no, but not surprised at all. And then other people are like I had no idea. I'm like have you listened to me talk?

Jackson: yeah like can you hear my voice like

Kino: Like, have you listened to me talk, have you? I just, I just, I don't know like I

Jackson: I know what you mean. Yeah,

Blake: yeah, I was I was in that boat too. I don't know if anybody ever was surprised. People were surprised at which thing I was telling them I was, so like I can relate on that they were just like oh, okay. I thought you were like an off lesbian, like I knew that wasn't it. Like I knew and it was not that. The other thing that like you being so young in like, some version of like queer awareness also means is that like you are also making college decisions with queerness being a thing in your mind, like I know you mentioned that you have a teammate was he already there?

Jackson: He was a sophomore here and I didn't know he was gay until like I met him so I mean like I was coming into this like fully blind like being like am I gonna get, like is something that's gonna happen to me? Like I don't know and then like everything was super, super duper like supportive so I mean like it was all good but it was like nerve wracking to like walk into the gym the first day and be like here I am because it's like, they follow me on instagram they have to know

Blake: yeah

Jackson: I'm not hetero, so

Blake: yeah and you said it like has been really supportive but what has like really supportive looked like?

Jackson: So I remember like obviously walking in and being super nervous and then like as time goes on I started to like open up and be myself and then like, nobody was like negative or like I don't know like it was just they were super positive they were like laughing at the jokes I made like all the gay jokes they were laughing, so I mean

Blake: Yeah that's actually like kind of the ticket like if like you're doing what like I was there like queer humor and people are like laughing with you and not at you it's just like right like and I also think that that's totally my way of going into those situations too, is I feel like I'm going to joke about this even if you were going to you can't really use it against me because like, even I'm willing to like,

Jackson: I already laughed at myself, so like, what are you going to do? Call me gay?

Blake: Right? Right. Oh wow. When I saw that you were on the team and then I saw like the first videos either from you or the team of like all your teammates cheering. And I was like, oh, that's like Bros. Like, like I know the stereotype of MAG is that it's like a bunch of closeted gay guys. And I was like, oh, that is not that is not what's happening.

Jackson: Very much frat, Straight energy very much.

Kino: I feel like the stereotype is actually one side or the other.

Jackson: Yeah. Yeah.

Blake: I think once, you know, once you're in a gymnastics, like community, I think you understand like the stereotypical MAG person, I think from the outside people, it's like, they must all be gay. They're doing this like girls sport.

Jackson: They're doing a girls sport, they must be gay.


Jackson: It's like the opposite. Like it's so like hyper masculine and so like,

Kino: yes, I'm like, have you seen some of these people?

Blake: Or heard anything they've ever said publicly, ever.

Kino: Have you? Yes. Have you heard things that people have said, have you seen people go on rings and look at their arms. Like it's just like,

Blake: But you can be Dom Palange, you know what I mean? Like you can have all of those, like, you can be Heath. Like you can have like Heath circa the last, I don't know, three months where all of a sudden he was, he called himself, I'm going to call him out on the spot. He called himself masc today and it took everything I had in me not to reply and be like liberal usage,

Kino: Heath's ripped now.

Blake: But I'll allow it. He's wonderful.

Kino: Oh Heath. Heath is a delight. We love you Heath.

Jackson: We love Heath.

Blake: He is actually the coolest person.

Kino: Yeah, he is. He has a cool lizard and a cool cat. We didn't get to see the lizard the last time we talked, I'm deeply offended,

Jackson: The fact that he has a lizard. Like that's so cool. Like I 3 like plants

Kino: I can't keep a cactus

Blake: So, you come into college, You're like, Okay, there's a million of the straightest boys I've ever seen because there's 50 million people on your team. And then there's like, me and Blake (not the person currently speaking)

Jackson: Yeah.

Blake: And people are like laughing like willing to like, laugh with you and like nobody's making stuff weird.

Jackson: yeah

Blake: How does that then feel like as you then like, like, oh, now I get to like do gymnastics. Like how does it feel? Just be like, oh yeah, like Great

Jackson: It was like a weight off my shoulders because I feel like all throughout club in joo, I was like holding back a little bit with my gymnastics, keeping it like normal almost. And like, like, very much

Blake: yeah.

Jackson: And now I can like I can land and I can be like Yes!

Jackson: Like I did it! I can like do like, some gay gymnastics and like, I don't have to worry about people being like, oh, you know what I mean?

Blake: And even if like someone from another team was like, what's this happening? You have like 20 some, straight boys like ready to go

Kino: it's like your own frat

Jackson: basically

Blake: Like the best security out of any of our guests.

Kino: It's like a gymnastics frat. That's what it is.

Jackson: It literally is. We are a gymnastics frat

Kino: You literally have like a billion of you and they're all just super masculine-y. I don't know. What was that? What are you looking? Are you confused by my

Blake: No, I just like, bless your heart and sharing space with all of those like, gross men

Jackson: It's great that there's like the three of us and we're like, well like, we all have each other's back and we can like talk about gay things together like, because you know the straights they don't always like to talk about, you know

Blake: you have to have the plastics at some point.

Kino: You have, it's like everybody is supportive, but it's also nice to have the tiny, you have your big community and everybody is loves each other and everything's great. And then you have the little community of like okay now we have to go away from the straight shit.

Jackson: Yeah. And we get to talk about for a second. We gotta vogue a little bit. We gotta work the house and we gotta party

Kino: We get to talk about the queer experience.

Jackson: Yes. We get to watch drag race so we need to do all that

Blake: Oh my gosh, I that makes me so happy. There's only one other like situation that we know about currently or ever that like, I might be lying.

Kino: No, I know what you're talking about

Blake: where there's been two out queer people on the same team at the same time. But then didn't somebody just tell us, didn't Kaya said that there was a person on her.

Kino: I thought you were talking about

Blake: but I'm talking about UCLA.

Kino: Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah. You are. Kaia um said that the, when she was a freshman there's a girl on the team who was also queer but she is no longer competing. She like medical retired

Blake: Because we don't hear about it a lot. And I'm so glad that like somebody is like getting to have that experience. Like where, because it's so important to not have to like translate basically

Jackson: basically. It's like a different language almost.

Blake: And like energy.

Jackson: Yeah. We're living in different worlds almost. That's what it feels like. Like oh you do that. I go do this. You talk to girls. I go watch drag race and I'll talk to girls,

Blake: that's great. My favorite people,

Kino: girls are great. There's a great, I'm going to just bring it up. There's amazing, amazing Tiktok or this guy who's bi actually says, yeah, I'm bi, but I date women because have you ever talked to a man? It was like, I deeply feel that have you talked to a man?

Blake: Yes. The other thing that you have that, I don't think we're going to talk to any, we've talked to like men who are gay and coaches, we've talked to like gay male athletes who don't necessarily want to be coaches. You're the first person that we've got to talk to who's like a queer person in MAG who is like going to go into coaching is like out as a queer person and particularly in the ways that like your queerness differs from like Randy's and like the gay men to where like, you're, you know, you're signing up for this career, like as an openly queer person.

Jackson: Yeah.

Blake: How does that feel where they're folks that you looked up, to are the things that you're worried about?

Jackson: The one thing that definitely scares me the most and this is like partially because of queerness and partially just because like, scary parents, like I'm nervous that I'm gonna like, because I want to coach girls and boys, like I'm coaching girls now, but I want to do both. I'm nervous that I'm going to like run into a parent that's like, why are you trying to make my son gay? Like why are you trying to turn my son into the fairy? That's like something makes me a little bit nervous. But I know right now the girls I'm coaching are like 10-14. So like they know what they know, they know what gay is. I'm like, very much like when I'm coaching

Blake: I mean, yeah,

Jackson: So I'm gonna just assume they know

Blake: and even if they don't, even if they were  super sheltered and have never met a queer person and like can't pick up on like that, Don't know how to name that energy, I knew at like 5, 6, 7, 8 energetically, like who else was like queer in a space. I think most girl children do, most kids do, like they can at least identify like something feminine.

Jackson: Yeah. I know my the older ones, that I coach, they definitely know. I feel like they're in like 8th grade like,

Blake: yeah,

Kino: Have they ever asked you?

Jackson: No, one of my girls asked me if I had a boyfriend once and I was like, no.


Blake: That's cute though. And they're just like, do you have a boyfriend? I don't know, it would have been so terrifying for me to ask somebody that even if I knew they were a queer person when I was a kid, like it was so like ...

Jackson: Yeah

Blake: Okay, we've done school, we've done coaching, we've done the team is rad. I watched your first meet I haven't seen anything since then. How has this season been going?

Jackson: It's going. So after the first me, I had a little injury, it was like the first practice back. So like two years ago I tore my left achilles tendon and then my right one had been bothering me because I kept landing my dismount, but like I kept face planning my dismount on floor. So my right one was bothering me and then I like I thought I tore it again for a second, but the week after, so our second meet, I was out. In the third me, I did floor and high bar, which I was so excited to do high bar, but I had an awful floor routine. It was so bad. But I hit my high bar routine, so, I mean you can't win them all. So now we have a meet, is it Thursday? In 2 days, so super exciting.

Kino: How do you know if your achilles is bothering you.

Jackson: Well when I try to do something it hurts

Kino: Oh ok. I just wasn't sure if there was like a specific thing, because sometimes my achilles do funny things

Blake: Like a tightness versus a pain versus ... yeah

Kino: yeah, because sometimes I think I actually do have a tight achilles because I walk on my toes, it's a problem. I also walk on my toes and on the outsides of my feet. So you can totally tell,

Blake: Me too!

Kino: oh my gosh, we're twins. I'm always like, am I going to tear my achilles? Like my dad has had achilles surgery

Blake: My dad has both his knees replaced. The answer is Yes.

Kino: Right. Like it's just terrifying. So I just wasn't sure if it was like a pain or a tightness thing because mine are just usually tight

Jackson: Before I tore the first one, It was sore, like just like normal sore for like two weeks and I was like, maybe one day I'll tear my achilles. And then I did. So I mean

Kino: So the answer is just think about it

Blake: Don't talk about it. Like you're right one is fine. What are you talking about? I didn't hear anything about your right achilles.

Jackson: It like, hurts. It's not sore. I don't know, I went to the doctor and they were like, it could be torn or it could be a strain and I was like, okay, well, I guess I'll just

Kino: Well it's not completely torn because you can walk

Jackson: it works, so I mean

Kino: So achilles injuries freak me out

Blake: Yeah, please don't do that. I don't like that doctor, it could be torn. what?

Kino: Yeah, that shouldn't, no.

Jackson: But it's getting progressively better. It was torn, it wouldn't be getting better. It's would be getting worse

Blake: But like, oww

Kino: yeah

Blake: Because I saw you do floor and vault so I didn't know that you also trained high bar. Do you train those three? Or do you train anything else

Jackson: Right now I'm doing like 5.5 events. Like I was doing rings and then my shoulder started bothering me so I stopped and then I tried to get back and I couldn't do any of my skills. So I do rings like once a week just to maintain but I'm doing routines on every other event right now

Blake: Nice.

Kino: My pommel routine is like (unclear), so I don't compete pommel

Blake: It's cool that you're still like training everything though.

Jackson: Yeah, I want to compete all around eventually. So

Kino: MAG has too many shoulder events.

Jackson: Yeah, you're telling me someone who's got like watermelon thighs, like 2/3 of my body,

Kino: you know, like WAG has like, oh these events are very power oriented and these are very graceful and artistry and then it's like MAG is just like, if you don't have shoulders, you'll die. Like if Maddie Kocian had been in MAG, she would not have arms anymore. And I say that with love because she did an arm event but I'm like, there's no way. It'll be like a go up on rings, this is your event. Okay.

Blake: It's just, MAG is wild to me

Kino: Truly

Blake: So we don't love pummels. Rings currently hurt.

Kino: Some of us do love pommels.

Blake: How's p-bars?

Jackson: P-Bars was just okay. I have like no difficulty on p bars. So like, I mean my routine is like kind of clean I guess, but I just have no difficulty.

Kino: Execution is a good thing though

Jackson: and I feel like I'm pretty consistent on my P-Bar set. Like I fall sometimes, but I mean, I feel like I'm consistent

Kino: I mean honestly like, I'm totally cool with a less difficult Routine as long as there's the execution. When I do watch MAG, I obviously don't get to see as much MAG, but like that's why I like Yul Muldauer, because like his gymnastics is clean and like executed well. Like I don't care that you're maybe not throwing the hardest skill because what if your hardest skills super ugly? Like obviously difficulty is important, but like it should look decent.

*****

Blake: So the other thing that I wanted to ask you about/talk to you about is you have said a couple of times, like I'm going to bring my queerness into gymnastics that I mentioned, you're like photos, which were like just like, the only word is like gorgeous. Like there's just like so pretty. Um, and it was so cool to see someone's like MAG (unclear). Like look at this like pretty thing go, I think the first question for me is what does that mean for you? Like bringing the queerness into gymnastics? Like what is that going to look like?

Jackson: Well I feel like we've always had queer men and gay men in gymnastics but they've always been like, like a fun little, like I'm gonna do, I'm gonna do Simone's floor routine for fun and I'm gonna just like, they're doing like men's gymnastics, but then on the side they're doing like a beam Routine and like a bar routine which I love, I'll play around on beam all day. But I want my men's gymnastics to just be of representation of who I am, which isn't like stiff arms and T-Pose and like saluting with one arm. I just wanted to look like I'm having a good time and I'm being my natural self and just a representation of me, I guess that's the only way I can describe it; and like for people to know that just because I'm like that I'm not weak or lesser, I'm just as strong. I'm working just as hard and I'm putting the same amount of work in, you know what I mean?

Kino: Is there a way to make the man wipe like, gay and queer?

Jackson: I'm trying and like,

Kino: Because you know, I hate it. It's just like, can you make it more fun?

Jackson: but I don't do it actually. I do this weird thing after a transition where I kind of do it but it's kind of fast and it's in the middle of my routine so it's not even at the end

Blake: Everyone thinking that one wasn't egregious, I'll allow it

Kino: Well I mean I don't mind it if it's just like you're if it's natural like it makes sense but when it's like you're just sitting there trying to catch your breath and like okay come on let's go.

Jackson: Yeah

Kino: He's sitting here, as I say, as the person who could not do a full floor routine

Blake: It's an easier question when people are like in elite because they can kind of do whatever they want and you don't get to just like fully decide what you're gonna do. But I wish that could be like, would you complete complete to floor music? Like if you could like wave a magic wand and like everyone was like onboard, would you want music?

Jackson: Like for mens?

Blake: Or just you

Jackson: I would I'm a performer, I love to be the center of attention so absolutely, I would love to compete with your music. I know in NAIGC they do the decathalon and I was like should I do it, am I going to do all 10 events? like I wanted to

Blake: Yeah!

Kino: please!

Jackson: I think I might have to before I graduate. Or even after, I think I could do after I graduate.

Blake: Yes. I totally forgot that was a thing.

Kino: Yeah, I would love it

Jackson: One of the straight ones

Kino: Straight people are real?

Jackson: Who knew

Blake: where?

Blake: 50% of people that listen also and like All but two of your team, like all 55 people on your team.

Jackson: Yes. All 110 of us.

Blake: There are so many. It's two teams.

Kino: There's still like, I literally looked and I just was like,

Blake: it's like hard to find you in pictures and

Kino: it was like, this looks like a frat. Like it looks like a portrait for like a frat photo, but it like a classy frat.

Jackson: Yeah, a gymnastics frat

Blake: I'm just like so relieved that even though you're walking into this environment that's like, just aggressively heterosexual, that you're still like, you have this little pocket of people who totally get you with the whole team is like been supercool, and they didn't bat an eye or anything, when you were like, and my head shot like,

Jackson: well by the time we did head shots, they were like, they were used to it by now. But at the beginning there was a couple of them that are like, what's going on? Like I've never seen anything like that before, which like, is to be expected. Like, I feel like, I'm also like six ft tall. So like, I'm just massive. So it's hard to miss me.

Blake: Yeah, that was part of how I like knew you at first was because we were talking about like being tall people in gymnastics

Jackson: I remember this. Yes, I do.

Blake: And I was like look at this other person who just like clearly casually does gymnastics and it's like 6 tall and then you're like lol jk watch me like be on this team. I wanted to make sure that this gets in here somewhere. I think our first ever merch purchases were like stickers and stuff, but the first person, I think you're the first person that ever bought one of our shirts and if you weren't, you're the first person who bought it and then told us that they got it. Like you were the first person who ever sent us a picture of our merch. And so you've just been like my low-key favorite.

Jackson: Oh that makes me so happy. I've been waiting like so long for like a shirt that's like gay gymnastics. I was like finally like something gay, something gymnastics, my two personality traits

Kino: I feel like you need to make a shirt that just says this is my gay gymnastic shirt and then make it and then just send it

Blake: right, I'll make it

*****

Kino: Obviously being queer is not always sunshine and rainbows and you do not have to answer this question by any means. Have there been any? I'm because I'm curious because most people have told us mostly positive experiences. Have you had any pushback because you're queer in gymnastics?

Jackson: like just in general?

Kino: in general.

Jackson: Yeah, I mean when I was in club I, so I started like wearing makeup and like painting my nails like every day. I don't know like ninth grade, 10th grade and then at club, I remember my coach always told me that I wasn't allowed to do that at meets and stuff, Like at practice it was fine, and like my two club coaches were super supportive and I'm so thankful for them. But I remember he told me not to do that at meets and I remember going to clinics and stuff like with other guys in the area and they were like, I always felt like a little bit ostracized and a little bit like, I don't know, like different. And I don't know if that was just me, if it was them, if it was both of us, which probably was just both of us. But it was just weird. There was never anything like crazy awful. So I'm very thankful for that. But like I also from my freshman of high school, I ran track and not to toot my own horn, but I was like one of the best freshman on the team and I did hurdles and I won a bunch of state titles and stuff and I remember going to track meets and people would give me like, weird looks and look at me like I was like, like crazy or like something they've never seen before. But then I beat them. So it was okay. So I mean nothing horrible,

Kino: nothing horrible but like standard

Jackson: standard, like what's that like

Kino: standard queer phobia?

Jackson: Yeah

Blake: I always feel like the, I can just relate to so much to the like knowing or thinking that what people are thinking is like what is that? Which I think like gay men and like lesbians and like bi-cis people experience to some extent. I think when there is like a gender component to it, whether we're aware of at the time or not, like I think that it's totally a specific thing of people being like, I know what gay people are and I don't even know how to like place that, you know, like it's it's very specific energy of like it's not even like aggressive, it's just like

Jackson: just like something over your shoulder. Like

Blake: yeah

Jackson: looking at your business and it's like,

Blake: well and I think that even if it's not overtly negative, there is something that can really mess with you about like presenting you're like pubescent authentic self to the world and having people be like question mark?

Jackson: I'm from Rhode Island which is like the middle of nowhere and I grew up in like a pretty rural area, which is weird because Rhode island's like a very democratic state, but like where I grew up was very much farmers, very much like country very much Trump. So it was weird to like grow up in that and like go to school wearing full makeup, but like, nobody made fun of me. Nobody like, like they probably made fun of me behind my back, I have no doubt. But like, nobody like made fun of me to my face or like pushed me around or anything. And one I think it's because I'm like, I'm just I'm just a big person and I'm

Blake: Yeah, it helps

Jackson: yeah, and then my brother who's a year older than me was like, he was like the top dog of his class. So like, yeah, I feel like I had a couple layers of protection, so that was really super weird

Blake: Being like a 5-foot 10 person. I think it made a world of difference. Just like the, I don't know, the fact that a good percentage of the people who otherwise would have didn't feel like they could physically intimidate me.

Jackson: Yeah, It's like I'm 6" taller than you, what are you gonna do?

Blake: It's like a win. And you've like always been doing MAG, like you've been strong,

Kino: you could deck someone,

Jackson: I could take someone out if I needed to

Kino: exactly,

Jackson: I have yet to need to do that. But I could,

Blake: I'm loving the mental image personally. Like we're gonna fight.

Kino: Sorry, I just thought it was an important question to ask because, you know, not everything is always sunshine and rainbows just because someone isn't like personally, like attacking you or like committing a hate crime doesn't mean that like things are good, you know, people are like, oh, well they, you know, because sometimes people are just like, oh, you know, and I'm like, no, like, you still can't say bad shit, you can't

Jackson: Yeah,

Kino: like I don't, because I'm fairly closeted, I don't experience a lot of direct things obviously. Um but like, I also just, I see like I see it happen and I'm just like, come on, I'm much more willing to speak up for someone else than myself, but it's incredibly frustrating. I don't know, it just just because you can be out and gay in gymnastics and be successful doesn't mean it's always easy. Um and I don't want people to not know that. It's not always easy.

Jackson: Yeah

Kino: I think it's important to know that like there's still struggles,

Jackson: there's always an extra layer of stress and anxiety with being whether you're gay, whether you're queer, whether you're trans, whether you're black, whether you're not the majority. There's always something there.

Blake: Yeah, I think that really describes it well to the like, even if you like figure out how to navigate that in high school and in club and it's like, okay, now I have to relearn how to navigate this in college.

Jackson: Which walking to the gym, my first day was definitely terrifying.

Blake: Yeah, like it doesn't matter how, what happened in high school,

Jackson: it doesn't matter how comfortable I am with myself either. Like

Kino: I was going to say um is Rhode Island big enough to have a rural area?

Blake: Yeah.

Kino: Um Rhode Island's pretty small. I lived in Boston for a bit. I never did get back to Rhode Island, but Rhode Island's small,

Jackson: I once drove my, so my dad lived in the southernmost town and one time I drove all the way up to the border and it took me 50 minutes.

Jackson: That's a long way. It's like you're going side to side, it's a good 25

Blake: so we'll link to your socials in the description. Is there anything else that you want folks to know about you, anything you want to say to the people?

Kino: anything you want, any words of wisdom you want to impart to the young, tiny queer MAG gymnasts?

Jackson: Well, just because there's nobody else ever that has been like you, you can't see anyone that's like you doesn't mean you still can't do it because I remember growing up and like watching the olympic trials and seeing like nobody was like me, nobody was like doing gymnastics like me, but I'm here, I'm queer, I'm ready to go, let's do it

Blake: you're my favorite. Um Thank you for being here. You have been wonderful,

Kino: thank you so much.

Jackson: Thank you guys, this is so incredible. Like I can't even, what you guys are doing for other LGBTQ+ gymnasts that are like younger because like having something like this when I was like, even like a couple of years ago, I would have like completely changed my life and like made me realize you can, gay and gymnastics are, they can go together. They don't have to be like two separate things.

Blake: Amen

Kino: you're going to change somebody's life.

Blake: oh god yeah

Kino: some kid is gonna hear this and just be like, it's gonna be better for them.

Blake: Yeah,

Kino: like I think about that a lot. Like

Blake: you're doing it too.

Kino: Every person we bring on here is changing somebody's life and we're getting we're just, we're just the platform like

Blake: yeah, it's y'all

Kino: it's y'all, It's not us.

Blake: All right, you're wonderful. We'll talk more soon.

Kino: Wonderful. Yes.

*****

Blake: So for people who have never seen written down anybody like right down multiple options for pronouns. Um, what does it mean to you when you say like he/they and then if I need to fill in what it could mean for other people, I will. But what does it mean for you when you say like he/they pronouns?

Jackson: I think for me it's like, He is what I've gone by for like the past 18 years of my life. It's what I'm used to. It's what everyone calls me and it's fine. Like I'm comfortable with that, very comfortable with that and then They is like, it's the representation of who I really am because I'm not, I'm not a boy, I'm not a man but I'm not a woman and I'm not a girl. So it's like They is like, just so people know that like, I'm still in the middle somewhere whether one day I'm wearing makeup and heels and the other day I'm wearing like a tie or something, like I'm just not on one side.

Blake: Perfect.

Kino: Never both.

Blake: Yeah. All of the things,
