null: 

spk_0: I think Division three is something that is incredibly not talked about enough, I think more girls need to look into it and more girls need to consider division three that going division three, you're not losing any praise, you still made it to college gymnastics, that is what I trained for my entire life and just because I did not go division one and I didn't get a scholarship that does not make me any less of a college gymnast than a division one athlete. Big Ten

spk_1: welcome to another episode of Half In Half Out Podcast I'm

spk_2: blake taking the intro solo today, it's been a bit of a rough week for Kino so send her some love at the wolf Kino on twitter. So this week we are talking to kaya lind heart of University of Wisconsin, oh claire And this was really an amazing conversation and I'm so glad we got to talk to her, she's the first D three athlete that we've talked to and I'll be upfront and say that I haven't paid nearly enough attention to division three gymnastics in my time as a gymnastics fan and so we kind of asked kaya to pitch D three to us and why athletes should take a look at it and why fans should take a look at it and I'm totally sold so I can't wait for her season to start, so we can watch her, we just had an amazing conversation for me, what really stuck out was that kai is dating a trans guy and it meant so much to me to be having a conversation with someone in a gymnastic space who was fluent in trans ness and who had trans ness interacting with their daily life but she's just amazing and so easy to talk to and so I'm really excited for you all to hear from kaya, but first I'm going to go over some of the meats that we've seen since the last episode and we're actually going to get to hear all the way up to this weekend, so we're going to catch up a little bit. So starting all the way back at the end of january, we had Missouri at florida florida one with a 1 97 85 amazing score for them, it's florida. So we know that there's some, some home scoring going on but overall really great job. Sav had an amazing 985 vaults as well as a 99 to 5 tying for second on bars. So that was a phenomenal night for Sav next, we had Arkansas at Georgia, Arkansas one With a 196, Georgia came in at a 195, Both teams did An amazing job. Overall, Alyssa got a 9875 on floor which tied her for third and it also was the top floor score for Georgia of the night. So it's really nice to see her getting those passes under control and just absolutely killing it on floor the next day, we had Washington at Utah and you know, we know Washington is still building as a team Talia had a 955 on beam Utah ended up winning that meet obviously but Washington continued to make progress week by next we had UCLA a at Arizona UCLA coming in at 1 96.75 Arizona at a 1 95 075 and Kaly was out for this meet nora was out for this we didn't get to see a scored Routine from from Sarah Taubman just you know three people that we've decided to particularly care about and as we'll hear about throughout all of this, Shay and mars are just absolute rock stars and they killed it at this meet and they have been killing it at every meet moving into the next week we had U. N. C. Pit and 1000 at N. C. State and this was a cool meet because U. N. C. We have tina when who isn't competing yet but is there we've got Kylie Roberton who recently came out as bisexual after pits pride meet so she's at pit and then the head coach for 2000 is is a queer person and so we had a lot of queerness in the building which was nice Kylie got a 9775 on beam wonderful job for Kylie I also noticed that there's a person at 1000 named Nicky Borkowski my last name is Bonkowski. So hello probably cousin that's funny I had a double take when I was looking at the scores. We also had Oregon state at Washington and I think I watched this and I think I recorded it. The score's website isn't working now because there's been another Washington meet and so it's showing me the UCLA scores but go back and watch Talia. She did a great job. And then we had BYU at UCLA the meat that we all know should have been a pride. meet What's honestly the most interesting about this meat has been the Gymternet and people learning for the first time what Brigham Young University is about. And a thing of note was that prior and thankfully they showed this on the broadcast but have the athletes out for national anthem but they had all the athletes out to have a moment of kneeling and display of solidarity for the black community and BYU did participate in that. It seemed everybody from BYU was there, you know, theoretically some people could have decided not to be present, but people were remarking about that and how that was really cool to see, especially from BYU and someone from BYU got a little defensive and was like, I'll have you know that half of our team supports the LGBT community, which isn't a thing to brag about because you just said that half of your team is aggressively homophobic. So that's been an interesting conversation on twitter, especially since this meet. The other really notable thing here is that BYU almost one BYU had a 1 96 3 to 5. UCLA had a 1 96 6. We didn't see Kaly or nora but we had absolutely amazing all around performances from shame ours and Nia. So then moving into this past weekend we had Alabama at Georgia and that was really interesting to watch super close. A lot of people were expecting Alabama to take that one but Georgia did win with a 1 97 to 75 and Alabama came in at an even 1 97. Alyssa did a great job on floor the 9875 and that was a really fun meet too. Watch because it was so so close and the teams did a really good job and unlike some other meats we'll talk about. I think those teams were really earning 197 at least for the most part which brings us to florida at LSU and first of all did you know it's the number one and number two team. I we needed to be told a million times, especially funny that LSU kept saying it's the number one and number two team without Clarifying that they were the # two team and I know we complain about scoring a lot. I'm not gonna stay on this too long. We obviously all complain about scoring all of the time and none of us are judges and it's a hard job. The only frame of reference that I have for how hard that job is. I was a softball umpire for one season is one of the hardest things I've ever done. I hated it. I was not good at it and I can only imagine being a judge can feel similarly the worst feeling was parents yelling at me because I was making a bad call and it's not that they weren't right, but I was doing the best I could and so all the credit to the judges who are doing the best they can and a really hard job and also, I don't know if that's true of these judges because wow, the over scoring was insane, just absolutely insane. And, and these athletes don't need it at all. They are phenomenal. This is the number one and number two team, you have all of this incredible talent and they don't need any favors on the scoring. Now, that being said, you also had some issues on the other end of the scoring spectrum to me at least because I would have given trinity a 10 on vault, attend on bars and a 10 on floor. She got a 10 on floor. She ended up with a 9975 on vault and bars 995 on beam I hopefully would have given her three tens and I really don't say that lightly, but that, that vault, that was, I think that was a 10 volt and I could be wrong, I'm going to miss something but Let's give her the 10 good lord and other scores were a little elevated and so you know, watch if you want to watch it, watch it for the sake of watching really good gymnastics maybe don't pay attention to the scores. It was really close. meet we have this great video of florida watching the scoreboard as if it was nationals oh my God we won because winning matters. But they did an amazing job. Really heartbreaking ending for LSU but they both put up an amazing, amazing fight down to the very last Routine So next we had new Hampshire at L I U L I U S first ever meet. And it was, it was funny to watch, especially after having that D three conversation with kai, it was funny to watch even though LSU D1 it was funny to watch this meat that was in a gymnasium and how folks kind of be like, wait, why does this look it's in a high school gym because it's in a gym and that's okay and we had a lot of our friends helping out at the meat. So we had dr sam eric was there, we had lots of cool folks who were helping out with running cameras, taking pictures running Twitter running across the arena to take a picture of someone but they all did an amazing amazing job. I did text, randy up up top to be like, hey, you're, you're mike's hot. So folks heard that I did try to, I did try to swoop in and, and save them there, but I love that they come out to the jaws theme, the scores website didn't work, it's the first meet so I would talk about scores, but I have no idea what they were, but I really love to see the Gymternet coming together, everyone was so excited and no, it wasn't that people weren't ruining against new Hampshire really, they were just rooting for you and you know, they are going to be an amazing program as they continue to grow and figure things out. The primary note I would say is just like, they gotta get their vaults start values up to be competitive with most of the other teams that, that they would be competing against, but it was really, really great to see randy, just so happy over in the corner and to see Halle and her coaching blue suit and I'm really excited that we get to, to work with them. They also, we get to talk about now because they announced that their next to meets the next one's going to be a pride meet and then following that they're gonna have a black lives matter, me and those are in the same weekend a couple of days apart, so me and kenya are helping with both of those were really excited that this is what, this is how this team is deciding to spend their first season. and so we're super happy for them. Congrats to ally you on an amazing first meet, the first new D1 team in 18 years. So it's really amazing. And then lastly we had yesterday valentine's day U C L A. At Washington, U C L A one with a 1 95 6 to 5, Washington finished out with a 1 93 5 and this is because the scoring was fair, this is a square that U. C. L. A deserve, this is closer to the score, UCLA might have deserved in some other meats and I honestly, there might have been a couple areas where I might have given you a couple extra tents in Washington, A couple extra tents, But for the most part this was fair Washington stayed on their track of 1935 and one of the things I really loved about this coverage. So first we have to bisexual athletes competing against each other for the first time ever that we know of. And the coverage really was highlighting Talia they in the way that when there's downtime in a florida meet they cut to trinity, they cut to Talia. Talia is kind of their building her up as their star and I love that, I'm really excited, I hope that that's actually what's happening because she is amazing. Kaly was back. She got a 97 to 5 on bars, obviously notes first bar. Routine back, it's still an amazing score. She did a really really good job, had a big step back on the dismount, I noticed maybe one handstand short but it it looked really, really good and I was really proud of her coming back but mars one all around because she was the only one that competed all around but she had a 39 3 to 5 Sarah Taubman competed her first scored floor Routine ever for U C L A. And that was so exciting to watch Talia ended up with a 97 on bars and a 985 on beam and that beam score in particular really clutch for that team. That was, that was a big, they really needed that Routine so we're excited to watch the meets this week. It'll be nice to have Kino back to talk about things with again, send her some love at the wolf Kino on twitter, everything's fine, it's just just a bad week and so I'm excited for you all to hear our interview with Kaia Lenhart of uw Oh Claire hi thanks for joining us, how you doing?

spk_0: I'm good, how are you guys?

spk_3: We're fine, we're surviving the universe.

spk_2: Like not the best week but big picture, everything.

spk_3: Yes this is and I'm not just saying this, this is truly the only part of my day I was looking forward to? I was like, okay. I'm like, I can get through today. You can get to our interview with kaya today and we'll be

spk_2: fine. Especially for you too because they get big bisexual energy today. Mm hmm. I think this is great.

spk_3: Yes.

spk_2: Okay. So how has gestures broadly this? Ben, how life house gymnastic stuff. I know y'all haven't you're in training in that natural season yet. How all that going.

spk_0: It's been pretty good. It was really hard to go from, you know, waking up every day for weights and practice and class. Everything in person too. Flying back home to colorado and then just literally spending every day sitting on the couch doing nothing online school, which was a harsh awakening. but I think it was good. Like it gave me the summer to kind of reevaluate. And I think it taught me like, because it made me learn that I actually do gymnastics and that I do still love it. Which was, it was a good way to tell because I missed it so much. And a lot of girls I think took that time and realized maybe I don't miss it that much. Maybe this break has made me realize it's time to be done. So

spk_2: I did not think of that. I

spk_3: hadn't thought about it. You're the first person who's brought that up.

spk_0: Yeah. My mom asked me, she was like, well, do you still love it even after all this I was yeah she's do you still are you still itching to get back in the gym? I was yeah she's well then I guess you should probably keep doing it. That's

spk_3: a good sign though.

spk_0: Yeah it was so

spk_3: hey you're not burned out yet,

spk_2: How has the school part been what are you doing in school?

spk_0: Um Right now all of my classes from last semester were online and I was supposed to have one in person this semester but also got moved to online so I have not been in the classroom since March of last year.

spk_3: Oh God what's your major

spk_0: um public health, political science?

spk_3: I'm I'm always I want to

spk_0: know

spk_3: major,

spk_2: I'm an academic advisor and so I'm I'm a nerd for it. That's a really cool combo. How did you get the idea for that combination?

spk_0: Well I started out as nursing and I still knew I wanted to do something in the medical field because it's just something I'm drawn to and my mom's a nurse in the er so she taught me a lot when I grew up and I just learned to love it but honestly I think it was more during the pandemic. I started to realize that I can do more in the medical field but more on the policy side rather than hands on which I mean I'm a C. N. A. So I still do hands on stuff and I would love to keep doing that. But it was kind of an eye opener for me that maybe I want to do more something in the political policy realm of health care. So that's really cool. Yeah, I just, I

spk_3: am always just really excited to hear what people are really passionate about outside statistics. Like I'm always you're in school, I want to know what you're doing in school. So you actually are the first person to reach out to us after a few listeners had already brought up your name and so you told us that you were bisexual and competing at Wisconsin. I can't pronounce it. Oh claire.

spk_0: Oh I did it. Yeah,

spk_3: Wisconsin claire. So how did you find us?

spk_0: Honestly, just through instagram I saw a few gymnasts tag you guys and I found your instagram page and I thought it was really cool. So I followed along ah that's so

spk_2: exciting people on instagram that makes me feel good about spending time doing that.

spk_3: I'm glad that somebody is seeing it on instagram. I know. Have you found a platform that you can do

spk_2: both? I did. No, that's not true. I found one that I was supposed to be able to do both but it works. I can do twitter and facebook but the instagram part just doesn't work.

spk_3: Oh well that's that's really interesting that you found us through instagram and yeah, it is really nice though, I the fact that you approached us. Yeah, it's kind of like, oh

spk_0: well I just to reach out and just let you guys know that I liked what you were doing. I don't know, I thought it

spk_2: was cool, I think it's very unique. Thank you, thank you. Yeah, originally our whole thing was like, we met each other and we were queer people who gymnastics and we're why is there no queer people in gymnastics maybe if we talk about it enough about why there isn't eventually we can make things better and then everybody came out all at once

spk_3: like really exploded.

spk_2: Okay, so now we're just going to talk to all these people because that's way more interesting

spk_3: right? And not to say we are not the reason it exploded, but we just happened to exist at the correct

spk_0: time. Yeah, just

spk_2: maybe start in january and then people coming in and during a little bit during season and then after season Yeah,

spk_3: great. I know our entire setup of what we were doing completely changed. we were like, oh my gosh occasionally we'll probably do an interview and now it's like, oh my gosh, okay, we're talking to so

spk_0: many people so great um

spk_3: I think that it's, it is giving people a space to talk about gymnastics just hasn't been a super queer space and I think it's opening up to be that a lot more, which is really nice

spk_0: because like, like

spk_3: we've always said tons of the fans are

spk_0: queer

spk_3: like that's not the issue, it's just like, oh,

spk_2: just pretending these people don't exist in the actual sport for some reason, right, when they have many theories, but it'll take a lot of time it's just, it's ridiculous, so to the extent that you're comfortable sharing about it, what was it for you in terms of coming out in gymnastics spaces, when did that start happening for you? What was that? Like,

spk_0: I started out in club, I guess I wasn't really, there wasn't a formal coming out to anyone on my team, it was kind of just the girls that I felt closest to, I kind of just felt out what I thought this space would be and if it would be a safe thing for me to do and talk about, and I think eventually I just kind of started dropping subtle hints and seeing what would happen, kind of getting the perception that I needed to, and then I opened up to my closest friends who were on my team and then eventually it became something that everyone knew about me, I didn't come out to my coach, my head coach from club until at least last summer or the summer before after I had graduated and he was just like, okay, I mean I kind of knew, but most people that's kind of what they tell me. They're like, yeah, I pretty much knew and I'm like, yeah, but just thought

spk_3: I'd tell you Yeah, well I'm officially telling you

spk_0: exactly

spk_2: have people ever told you what? Like if you're asking why do you like, how did you know

spk_0: I, most people just don't have a straight answer for me in that sense. Like they're just like, I don't know, I kind of assumed, but I also figured you could be straight. So I just kind of didn't really think about it very much. And I was like, yeah, they're like, you're just a very open person and you dye your hair a lot. So my

spk_2: God, that was going to ask, I was going to ask if they were like, is it because you dye your hair dye my hair a lot? Like

spk_3: yeah, that's really funny. I know. I remember I told someone once and they were like, oh, oh, I'm not surprised at all. And I was like, okay. Like is it because I had an undercut once.

spk_2: It is and also everything, everything

spk_3: else about me. I mean you're not wrong. This was before I started wearing multi colored sweaters to

spk_2: as the one person in the room that doesn't use the word bisexual for themselves. Like I, we've talked about this before with Talia, there is just kind of sometimes this bi sexual energy or energy. There's totally trans, there's totally trans energy, that's totally a thing., and even straight cis people can pick up on it and I think because we're a little bit older than you and I think our time people more attributed to other thing, Cameron esposito talks about this, but she was like, people always call me fat, but I wasn't fat. They just didn't know the word of God. Yeah, that's totally what it was, but it was just you're a weirdo or you're fat or whatever. and I think by the time hopefully maybe you were around, people were just kind of like, maybe that's something gay, which that seems gay adjacent. But I don't know enough to know bisexual energy. It's cool that you were out in club. I don't think we've had a ton of people, we've had some, but not a ton of people who even realized they were queer while they were in club and we're able to talk to people about it. I also think one at a time is totally the way to go, nobody, nobody's asking for an announcement of anything ever and people are different and require different ways of approaching the conversation,

spk_3: but I also that you're just like, yeah, people were like, yeah, I kind of knew and I mean, so were most of those reactions positive then?

spk_0: Yeah, most of my club reactions were super positive and the friends that I am still my closest best friends are the first people that I told and they don't think they necessarily knew, but it was just one night we were slap happy and it was late at night and I told them outside of the gym, so that also helped and then I was just like, maybe don't tell anyone until you see me tell anyone and they were like, okay, yeah, we'll keep that to ourselves and so that was good.

spk_2: That's sweet and very teenage girls in a way and I'm just like, oh I remember that the week's take happy thing.

spk_3: I mean there have been definitely been times where that's the time when I've come out to a person is like, I'm slaphappy

spk_2: create being a a very different coming out experience where I'm having to correct people's assumptions about me, they're thinking the wrong thing, but when it was very disappeared being like, oh duh, that was totally what I did and I used to from colorado, I'd never, I was trying to look, I never found a gym where were you at

spk_0: premier gymnastics of the rockies,

spk_2: cool, how did you end up at Wisconsin? Oh claire. And also I saw your video, we were like, why did I go to a school,

spk_0: it's really cold, why the division three gymnastics world is already extremely small. There's very limited schools to pick from and majority of them are either in Wisconsin and Minnesota or on the east coast. So once I decided in club that I don't want to do, do you one or two that I want to just kind of lean towards D three, then it was kind of just picking a school that I already knew I had to go far away from home and I was ready to, I was ready to get out of my small town. And so I visited a bunch of the Wisconsin schools and I visited one up in Westchester in pennsylvania and then I kind of just fell in love with O Clare's community and the town kind of just sucks you in. It's a very sweet place to live, it's beautiful here and I just, I love the coaches and the atmosphere and so it became an easy decision the second that I came there and I knew I wanted to go there and they had a great nursing program and degree that I wanted. So I just kind of ended up here and I knew it was going to be cold and I knew it was definitely going to be a lifestyle adjustment going from the pacific mountain range to the midwest but I loved it. So at least you still already had cold weather. Like I've

spk_3: seen people who are like, I'm from California, the southern part and then I go to snow as people in California say we're going to go to the snow and I'm just like, that's a

spk_0: choice. You are going to have to buy a down coat to say we have two girls on our team who are from California and they are just dumbfounded by the cold. And yeah, colorado is a very dry heat or a dry cold. There's no humidity all year round. It's never anything. It's just super dry and high elevation. So it's painfully cold here because it's humid and wet and cold or it's humid and hot and I was not used to that. So it was the extreme end of both of them. But yeah,

spk_2: like opposite elevation,

spk_0: right? And my hometown was A little bit over a mile in elevation. I think it was 50 600 ft and here I think it's 800 ft elevation. So yeah,

spk_2: I'm gonna take you to how long it take you to

spk_0: adjust. I feel great. Every time I go anywhere that's not colorado because my lungs feel great. But going back, I definitely feel it the second I land on the plane, I'm like, oh, there's the elevation again. I never thought about that

spk_3: like living at a higher elevation. I mean I'm sure you're

spk_0: used to it. But yeah, we had a lot of club meets where people would travel from out of state to compete for our club and the elevation sickness is real and they would get, excuse me altitude sickness and they would get that and struggling to breathe. Isn't that like,

spk_3: isn't that the whole idea of why so many athletes train in Colorado anyway, so that you're already training at that higher elevation. That's just that's wild. I've never thought about that like, yeah, I mean, I remember we went out to colorado with my, with my family. I don't know we weren't doing anything rigorous so I probably really didn't honestly notice it.

spk_0: Yeah, most people don't, unless you go up in the mountains and go hiking, you probably won't feel it. So

spk_2: probably so I don't actually really know anything about the covid situation in Wisconsin. But michigan is a complete dumpster fire

spk_3: indiana is not so great either. So what's the covid situation in Wisconsin,

spk_0: we for the longest time had pretty high numbers. I haven't looked in a while. I know our county is not great. Our school had to get a bunch of funding for testing and vaccines for staff because it was so bad. We get tested every week just to practice and if we go anywhere and come back, we have to get two negative tests just to come back to practice. So over christmas break, but it was so bad that I, I was home for six weeks. I went home right before thanksgiving and I didn't come back until January three because if I came back I would have to fly because I'm not driving 14 hours by myself. So I would fly home and then if I were to come back after the thanksgiving week, the second I get back, I have a mandatory quarantine for two weeks because I flew and then by the time those two weeks would have been up it would have been finals week and it would have gone home again for christmas and we get to be home for two weeks and then I come back and I have to quarantine again for two weeks. So it was I would have had zero days of practice and just stuck in Wisconsin in my house alone. So I chose to stay home.

spk_3: I mean it's a very good reason to stay home. My first thought was this is why we need a bullet train in the United States because we can just put people in private cabins. but sorry not to derail it with, oh, I didn't even mean to make a pun. But no, but this is really this is a problem because you have people who need to travel on planes and it's we can't stop playing travel in the sense of you have to travel, but then we have people, there was the case probably about a month ago where the person on the plane had Covid and they lied about having Covid and then when the person was starting to go into medical, right? But they were like, when they were in medical distress, the whoever they were traveling was was like, oh, they have a positive covid test. And it's like, then why are you on the plane?

spk_0: I

spk_3: understand if you don't know, but you don't get on the plane with the

spk_0: positive Covid. I recently saw an article about the like, it's not necessarily the airplane that you're going to catch Covid on. It's just in the airport because the airplanes have such a high quality air filtration system that you would need to be sitting directly next to somebody who has Covid 54 hours to catch it.

spk_3: It's all the things coming with traveling being in a high traffic area. I mean, I still don't want to be in a metal tube with other people who

spk_2: could be sick and just this. It's the sheer amount of people who are like, you have to be that close to throughout the day. I mean, yeah, I was gonna listen I get a pat on every time because that's what happens when you're trans. So I get packed on every single time. Like, I don't want to get a pat down during Covid like, Yeah, that. Like, and I know it's going to happen, but then you're just out for 6-8 weeks

spk_0: Exactly well and that's what happened. My, so my boyfriend who's also trans, he came out to visit me in september and he came out and we flew well he flew and he was like, I hate the airport so much and I was like, I'm so sorry but at least you get to see

spk_3: me

spk_2: like

spk_3: his birthday

spk_0: weekend. So I bought him a plane ticket to come out and see me and I felt so bad. I'm telling

spk_3: you trains are the answer.

spk_2: Yeah, trains are better. Like I have, oh my God, I have a shirt that has a person riding a train and it said, but it says I trans.

spk_3: Yeah, I actually have a thing about trains. I really love trains and Covid also ruined all my train dreams because I was supposed to go to Korea and Japan this past summer and then that got canceled and my life dream is to write on a bullet train and I didn't get to do that. But I truly pete buddha, judge you are the transportation secretary, please build a bullet train through the United States. It can be the lasting effect of the gay community has contributed

spk_2: to the train was literally tell your boyfriend train is better. Like literally every way but also the airport sucking doesn't stop no matter what. So you do just kind of have to learn to put safety measures in place to where like, and to be fair honestly you kind of just learn to keep yourself safe in the moment. Like you take the public pat down at the private one, you try to minimize the time you're traveling alone. Just look for look for the queer ist person around or I look for older black women usually, but I'm just look at people who are going to help you all the time. Like there's, you know, and it sucks but you do kind of just learn but I also, I will avoid flying if I can, we don't ask everybody and everybody talks about it, but I think you're the first person who's been on here who's dating a trans person so that makes me excited. Yeah, I didn't really give their business to the world but how's that going? It's so

spk_0: great. I love him. He's the best. Yeah. We grew up together and he also grew up mormon so that's

spk_3: a lot Oh my goodness. That's a whole other

spk_0: layer. So we kind of both came out to each other and helped each other in high school and then over the last summer we just decided we were like, do you want to go on a date and I was like, I would love to so we just kind of reconnected after he came out publicly and everything. So yeah,

spk_2: that's the cutest thing ever and why the better and the most queer people story of the world

spk_0: Always says that she's like, you guys make up 50% of the LGBT acronym, you guys can't be touched.

spk_2: I'm I'm one of those, I'm in one of those relationships too. And so it's like, ah there's been a couple tv shows where they've been competing with other queer couples for spots and a preschool or whatever and the gay white guys and then the interracial lesbian moms will show up with a once in a wheelchair and like, I know exactly what you're talking

spk_3: about. Why is preschool so competitive. That's the real

spk_2: question. So, came out in club got to college. Was it kind of just the same where people were just kind of like, I caught the vibe. Did you just tell people individually, how did that go down?

spk_0: Yeah, I kind of, at that point, I just, I had no shame left. I was just like, I don't care if they find out. I don't care if they judge me. Like, I just, I don't want to hide it in college. I did that in high school and it was boring. So I just kind of, I mean I was publicly out on instagram and so I just was like, if people want to ask me about it, they can, I'm not going to hide it. I'm going to let people know. Yes, I've dated girls and yes, I have dated boys. I think also I came to college without a boyfriend, but this year, the incoming freshmen, I mean you can figure it out. We all have social media and stuff and they knew that my boyfriend was trans and that's usually not something a straight girl would do.

spk_3: So

spk_2: especially when combined. Like with the energy. Yeah,

spk_0: the dyeing my hair is always the giveaway. Is it not died

spk_3: right now?

spk_0: It's a little bit my natural hair is this bleach blonde, but it's, it's a little bit silver right now. Okay. Blue and silver. And this is what we have so purple.

spk_3: Wait, what are, what are our colors colors

spk_0: blue and gold.

spk_3: No, don't do that. I was going to be two blue and colds and then I regretted

spk_2: every

spk_3: yeah, blue at the bottom. Like I'm really into the blue ends or the colored ends, Blue

spk_0: does not stick in my hair. I've tried blue three different times with three different brands fascinating with your natural hair color. A lot of hairdressers have told me that because my hair is bleached blonde naturally. That since it's not full of bleach chemicals that if I bleached my hair and then dyed it blue, it would work. But because my hair is naturally blonde. It doesn't to stick.

spk_2: So people in college was like, cool.

spk_0: Yeah, Yeah, because I'm not, I'm not the only one, there was one other girl who was publicly out, she retired this year, but so I guess this year I am the only one at least to my knowledge, so nobody really has a problem with it.

spk_2: It is also nice that you weren't people's first person or that in your first year, you weren't the only one being a freshman and being not the only one that is hugely different. And also, I think we haven't talked to anybody who has ever not been the we've talked to everybody has

spk_3: Been the only one,

spk_2: at least as far as we know.

spk_0: Well, it was kind of acute situation where we had a team bonfire and we were playing? Never have I ever, and somebody was trying to point at the other out girl and they were like, never have I ever been with a girl? And I was like, just raised my hand and they were like, wait a minute, It's like, oh yeah,

spk_3: uh okay. Oh, it's so cute though, it's like, it's just, you know, it just, it makes me happy. it makes me really happy. So I guess that kind of leads into the question of have you had any struggles, you've had pretty positive experiences coming out to your club team and your college team, have you had any struggles in gymnastics that you attribute to being bisexual and a gymnast,

spk_0: right? For me, the biggest one was just, I didn't want people to look at me differently, it's an all female support. It's an all our team, at least I shouldn't say the sport is female and so I don't want people to think of me differently or be worried about going into the locker room with me or in the bathroom, there's nothing different about me other than the fact that you know, I have been with women, but that's that's not something that I wanted my teammates to look at me differently for. So I don't know that any of the struggles that I've had have been directly because of my teammates, it's just been internal struggles that I have put together in my mind and determined that oh well people are going to hate you for this and don't try to act so gay around them, none of them are gay so they won't understand anyway, like, you know what I mean? It's just kind of that I didn't want people to be not inviting me places anymore because they're like, oh well she's just going to talk about this the whole time.

spk_2: Like if they're not talking about boys the whole time and you can't talk about bullets

spk_0: like Exactly yeah, the bi

spk_3: experiences, you get to listen to me talk about both. So there's double the amount of things for me to talk about.

spk_2: Exactly, none of you are frustrated. You think you are trust me and you want to have this Oh my gosh, I do not. I do not.

spk_3: Oh no, absolutely not. I had that thought process today when I was at work, I was like, don't I'm so glad I'm an adult,

spk_0: I'm 20 now, so I'm no longer a teenager

spk_2: I know, isn't it? So it's so much, truly, so much better just in your own mind, when your brain kind of starts finishing up in there, it's like, oh, I don't I don't care at all. None. Exactly,

spk_0: like, I don't have reached a point where none of the people that I was friends with in high school, I talked to two of them, none of the people who had power over me have power over me, it's just a very wild experience.

spk_3: That kind of actually is some a question that I wanted to ask. So your d. three and the university, and for lack of a better phrase, the university does not own you in the way, I mean, I don't know how else to put it. That when you're D1 even probably due to to an extent, like, the university owns you in a certain way, that is very uncomfortable just because like, you're relying on them for financial support. So do you think that has affected your relationship? I think with competing in college because ultimately, like, you can walk away if you want to and the university, like, it doesn't necessarily change your university

spk_2: Experience, especially because you said you, like, kind of, like, decided on day three, how you phrased it?

spk_0: Yeah, I think Division three is something that is incredibly not talked about enough, I think more girls need to look into it and more girls need to Consider Division three that going Division three, you're not losing any like, praise, like, you still made it to college gymnastics, that is what I trained for my entire life, and just because I did not go division one and I didn't get a scholarship, that does not make me any less of a college gymnast than a Division one athlete, and more girls need to realize that because it is so hard to be a college gymnast in general, like, we still have lifting, we still have nutritionists and strength and conditioning coaches and practices, it's everything that Division one athletes get, but the difference is, we all want to be here, none of us are on scholarship and fighting for a spot on the team, we're all here because we love gymnastics and we wanted four more years to compete, and that's the difference between us is that we all chose to spend four more years, you know, potentially ruining our bodies because we loved it and because we wanted to compete in it, and so there's a lot more, not to say that there isn't camaraderie in division one, but we're all super close and we all definitely find the love for the sport in a healthier way, So that's why I love Division three,

spk_2: I love that. Yeah, we had a former D three goodness, that differs from stout, ask us a question, but I which I'll get to but you are totally correct, we should be talking more about D three and it's one of the reasons why I'm so so, so glad that we decided to like, to the extent that we can cover at least watch as many as we can have all of the meats that have openly queer gymnasts in them because like, I didn't know there were what, five Wisconsin, the three teams until I was looking you up and we have one other athlete, we haven't interviewed yet, but who was said yes, we've just had a nightmare with scheduling who's also in D three, just even having those two teams to watch for me, because then we get to watch all the other teams, Right? Like because there's 14 of you and you're right, there's five in Wisconsin, there's three in Minnesota, There's three in New York, maybe four now Rhode Island pennsylvania, yep right, Minnesota, if I didn't say that, I

spk_3: just think it has to be a different experience because I just, I feel the pressure of and obviously people do D1 because if you get a scholarship, it's a free education and there's totally merit to that and all of that, but it is a different experience because ultimately at the end of the day you answer to the university whether that's right or wrong, that's really honestly a debate for a different, a completely different episodes,

spk_2: like I work for A D. One school and it's it's challenging

spk_3: and I I know a lot of people who have gone and Dundee three athletics and they're it's great I get to continue to compete in a sport that I love and then I go to school

spk_0: and it's yeah, we're definitely students and then athletes, it's definitely in that order.

spk_2: Oh that's so good. I also wish that I'm looking and now that I'm looking at it, Division two is six teams which doesn't make any sense and then D1 is huge, but there's a ton of teams that are in D1 that I absolutely did not think we're in D1

spk_3: I assume everyone's D1 and

spk_2: lessons at san Jose state, san Jose state, I thought was really sacramento state, I thought Illinois champaign was day two for some reason, I don't know why it's

spk_3: also super confusing because then you have schools that are D. Three or D two in some sports, but they're D1 in basketball, Valparaiso think they're D1 in basketball, but I think there D. Three and everything else or D. Two or D. Three and everything else because it's you're so

spk_2: small more schools would do that Eastern michigan, I used to work there so I feel I get to say it, I have a degree from their eastern michigan should not be D1 and all that. That doesn't make any sense. They suck at most of them not gymnastics, they really they have a gymnastics team blake, their football team is notoriously bad, their gymnastics is wonderful and also probably makes more sense than

spk_3: also it makes sense to be D1 and no offense to gymnastics, gymnastics is not a money making sport for the school.

spk_0: No,

spk_2: it's not this whole thing

spk_3: we want as much as we would love for gymnastics to be the money making sport. It's not

spk_0: and like

spk_3: I don't know just I guess really want student athletes to be treated better too so

spk_2: because it sounds a student first. Mhm. Like weren't really kind of worried about being a person,

spk_0: right? I will say that I have not had a bad experience as a student athlete at declare while our program maybe a little bit underfunded, it was hard because of covid we're supposed to get in ground pits and the budget had to be frozen so we didn't get those but we definitely are treated with respect and were given all the resources that we need so I really can't complain too much

spk_3: if you want to have athletics out of school, you have to treat the gymnast or the athletes, not just the gymnast treat the athletes well. I'm a person

spk_2: whose job it is to be a staff member at a university with a counseling degree, who isn't a counselor because the job of universities is to give you this curated experience of growth inside and outside of the classroom that leads you to have the knowledge you need to pursue whatever career path that you want to do. Mhm. You can't do that if you are treating your athletes crap or if they're like, not actually doing school because even people who could go to pro athletics, they need something to fall back on, y'all need to be actually getting an education in this process, including outside of the classroom. Like a lot of my jobs and advisor is helping people get involved outside of the classroom and a lot like, D1 athletes can't do it they don't have time. Yeah, they don't name or details

spk_3: we do, because I think college athletics are really important. I just don't think it needs to be the only thing that you're in school for, you

spk_2: know, yeah, there should be three, kind of like, even this is ridiculous. I'm looking at this chart and I'm like, this is the stupidest thing I've ever seen, What is D 2, 6 teams,

spk_0: but also see we also in the Seattle pacific this year and I looked at going to that school? It's a great school. It's really expensive but it's a great school.

spk_3: We also just need to have more visibility of D two and D three sports to watch because

spk_0: like I think our meats are maybe streamed live on our team's own facebook and we're in charge of doing that as a team are university does not set that up for us. We if we want our parents to be able to watch this season because we can't have Spectators. We are in charge of that.

spk_2: I'm glad you said that cause I was also going to ask you about it because because we're trying to watch everyone so it is not just your parents also us and probably people who are going to listen to this. So if people need help or give you a hard time about dreaming stuff or whatever, be like, look, there is an entire community of queers depending on this live stream,

spk_3: it's never the team's fault that. They're not being streamed either. You know, it's like, can we just please like, yeah, you see all the gymnastics all the

spk_2: time, facebook or youtube, whatever. It's free. So we

spk_0: have a very short and sweet season. So yeah,

spk_2: For me it's it's going to the next question Megan who is from stout asked with only a four meet season and no conference or national championships for D three this season. How are you approaching it? How are you handling it? How's the team handling it?

spk_0: Yeah, I think at this point we're all just extremely grateful that we even get to have a sports season. Like they could have done exactly what they did with fall fall sports and just said it's too much to deal with. We're just going to cancel it altogether. The protocols are obviously in place, we get tested the day of the meats, they're all on Thursdays and we have to get tested the morning before the meet our bus ride will be socially distanced. We're going to have all sorts of safety measures in place masks when we're not flipping and I think we all are just at a point where we've decided We could complain and we can make a big deal out of it because you know, division one gets a certain number of meats, D two gets a certain number of meats and we get four, no conferences, nothing. But for a lot of our seniors, they're this is my last year. I'm just going to deal with the fact that we only have four meats and take it as a blessing that my body will not hurt as bad our season doesn't start until later. So there's another blessing that we get more time to prepare and I think we're all just kind of handling it well at least we get to compete at least we don't have a canceled season again. So that's kind of where we're at,

spk_2: that's awesome that people are looking at it that way. And also it's what D1 teams should be doing because they only actually need four scores, maybe have five, maybe have six for an extra home in a way, in case you like, so you can drop one, but like

spk_3: nobody should be having a full season right now, but that's my own person,

spk_2: You don't need 14 meet it doesn't make any sense. I was worried about y'all because I was making the schedules and stuff kept getting pushed or whatever and like, or I was just getting confused because being so many whatever, I was doing them chronologically and I'm getting through and I'm it's middle of february

spk_0: 25th.

spk_2: Yeah. And then I got and so I finally did the last one february and I was like, oh thank God yeah,

spk_3: we get to watch

spk_0: Kaia. Yeah. Last year our first meet was in Alaska, we flew to Anchorage Alaska and competed there and I'm pretty sure that meat was right on January five, so we got back from christmas immediately trained, headed to Alaska and we had a lot of meats last year. So kaya season starts

spk_3: on february 25th with oh Claire at Hamlin on March 11th, they will be at Oshkosh on the 18th of March they will be at Gustavus Adolphus And on one April, they will be at stout, all of their meats are in conference this year.

spk_2: Well what do you think D3 could do to get people to pay more attention.

spk_0: It's when you are looking at schools, a lot of the, a lot of what they used to pull you in is and it sounds bad, but aside from the fact that you love gymnastics and doing gymnastics, it's well look at all this gear, we get and look at how cool our team photos are and we have this really cool intro video every year and look at our amazing facilities. Like we have equally great facilities, we just don't have an intro video and A brand new 14 brand new Leo's every season, we still have just as much fun, we have a great facility, we have all the people and resources that we need. It's just a different atmosphere in the sense that we are not getting paid to do that. So like, we have to buy our gym membership, so our rec room that we are required to have lifting, we have to buy the membership for the year, which I'm sure in D1 you probably don't have to, but that's just something that we choose to do because we still want to be on the team. I think if you still love gymnastics enough, but you don't want to be necessarily treated in a division one type of way, Division two or 3 is an amazing choice. There are so many schools that have amazing teams and amazing coaches who want nothing more than for you to thrive as a person. My head coach says that all the time. She's you guys are people first and then you're a gymnast, there's so much to life outside of gymnastics. I want your guys bodies to be able to hold up that you can have kids and you can walk down the aisle if you want to get married one day. Like I want you guys to at least have a good life. So if you're hurting or you're injured or you need a day for mental health we're not going to tell you not to we're going to encourage you to take that day because that's what you need at this moment. So

spk_2: that's awesome. I think just to because you're not scholarships are there caps on the size of the team or anything? Like

spk_0: Yeah, there's still, I think it's 24 is the maximum size. Yeah, it is a

spk_2: lot. I just think there's so many athletes who if that was a realistic option in their head the future or even just an equal option, they're headed for their future or whatever. Like who wouldn't quit or who and this is what I think is the real one. Like we had Tina when and she talked about her coach didn't put her in the U. S. Elite system. Like she competed for Vietnam because the US system was just so hard on your body and so abusive and all of that and you can go to a D. Three school and just never go through any of that. Like it's not that people Don't treat level 10s and nines trash sometimes but not the same on your body. Yeah schedule.

spk_0: We still have athletic trainers at our practice every day. We have full athletic training facilities at our disposal and they are more than happy to help you with any injury and they take it super seriously. So it's we're definitely taken care of

spk_2: and I think you just probably have more juice coming in. Like I think you're all just less likely to be super super messed up coming in in the body and the mind but also less messed up coming, leaving probably less likely to get injured and less likely severely and less likely to have serious physical or mental health consequences for life. Like it's for life.

spk_0: Yeah none of us went through that elite path. So none of us have that intense hardcore tops training where we were homeschooled and then went to jim for full time. So that's definitely a big bonus that we can all still be competing all four events our senior year which is my coach's biggest goal is she wants everyone to have All four events by their senior year. We all train them. I mean there are special cases where some girls don't do some events at all, but we all train all four events coming in even if she knows you're never going to compete it because that's you only have four years left in the sport. She wants you to learn new skills and find the joy in that again

spk_3: and you get to compete. It makes me so sad when I see a gymnast who's a senior and finally competing her first Routine or I see a gymnast who is exhibition ng as a senior and never made lineups and it's obviously there are plenty of reasons people don't make lineups and I would never say don't quit gymnastics but it just makes me sad. I'm you could you could go somewhere and be competing every week and it's a choice that people make because I understand it's also a financial choice if you can get a D one scholarship and you never can be, it's a financial choice and I get why people do

spk_2: it but a lot of people are on those teams, not on scholarship

spk_3: just cutting in to say that the beginning

spk_0: of Kia's statement got lost which was that these gymnasts have

spk_3: been training their entire life to go to

spk_0: college to go to college gymnastics and then you get this huge status. Like I knew I didn't want to go D1 for the one purpose that if I get injured or I am not good enough to make the lineups, I don't want to just be at A. D. one school for the D1 status and like whatever

spk_2: it really shouldn't well I just think to we we could have been seeing Sarah Taubman this whole time right at U. C. L. A. And at even almost any other D1 school we would have been seeing Sarah chapman the whole time let alone D. Two and D. Three people. Like I'm just gonna keep using UCLA as an example because their lineup is the best in my head but page Hogan we just saw she'd be at every week at A. D. Two D. Three school. I mean people transfer at the end of the school Mercedes just transferred it's still D1 but it's going to have a really different experience and not

spk_3: everybody is going to be sake and get into lineups after transferring either. You know it's

spk_2: yeah there's so much to me about what you're saying about people being there because they still love the sport that to me just as a counselor is just oh my God that is so much healthier y'all's priorities are in a much healthier place. You're thinking about your bodies and your careers in a healthier way and you're actually getting to do the thing for four more years in a way that most of you probably wouldn't Yeah, anywhere else, we

spk_0: May not score nine nines and

spk_2: our goal maybe aren't really scoring nine nines either, so like,

spk_3: All right, how many? 99 should be in 99? We

spk_0: enjoy meet season more than anything. So,

spk_2: I'm excited to watch, especially now hearing that and just kind of like, I could tell when you watch the pit pride me for example, I was that is just really good energy and you can tell it everybody is totally into it and I'm hoping that that's what's going to be watching these D three ones because it seems that's the energy. I even think to the scoring is also you can't compare the scoring, no,

spk_0: absolutely not, no, we get club scored which is fine with us, but it's even across all D. Three, so it doesn't matter

spk_2: right, which is great. It's not even across all D1 absolutely not.

spk_0: All colour on your leotard definitely just determines those last 5/10,

spk_2: so it does not matter much and it it blows my mind even to see even just amongst the teams that like, you would kind of think would be scored similarly. Like I live 25 minutes from University of Michigan and I used to work for University of Michigan And they are ranked 8th or something, they get scored. If you are in this arena at Michigan, you are getting scored way harsher that if you are at any of the other schools, they normally are really competitive with. If you're in the building, it's going to be lower and then michigan will take that same Routine somewhere else and it'll score higher in the building, it's lower. I'm literally like, is it the lights or something? Like there's something wrong with this room, you're the only judge that live in michigan all is it the same lady every time? Like what's happening? Which is why it shouldn't all one. They should also have club scoring earn your stuff because if you did club scoring. Mhm Kyla ross routines, I think she would eventually got to 10. She

spk_0: would have at least gotten one or two in there, but she wouldn't have got

spk_3: one every week.

spk_0: No, no, no. Like you can go back and watch some of her routines and be like, okay, forget it. Like I got nothing. There's literally nothing I can

spk_2: we saw, we saw two kyla ross tens in person the best day of my life and they were, they were tense. Like I saw that and I was like, oh I get it now, but

spk_3: it's also it's very frustrating because then we would see routines that would not go 10, that we're better than previous 10 routines and we're like, okay, so this shouldn't have been a 10 and this should have,

spk_0: so it's

spk_2: or neither should have, this one definitely shouldn't have been

spk_3: right. If you're going to choose between the one, it should have been this one.

spk_0: Even Maggie Nichols, like, yeah, How many times did she get? Like 22? Or some people have also

spk_3: talked about how there have also been judges who gave and this is not just

spk_2: Maggie,

spk_3: but Maggie hopped on a dismount or something and the judge gave her a 10 and so she ended up getting a 975, but it's like, that's not, it's, It's we're devaluing the 10 ultimately. Yeah, paying. I would agree with paying as well,

spk_2: like hang on the paying, almost always was making a correction on the turn.

spk_3: Yeah, but it's also this whole like, line up, the whole building. I think I have a I have a so this is what I think should happen. I think you should submit your lineup. Okay. You say these are my six gymnasts, they put it in a random generator and they say this is the order we're going in. I know. That's really bad for you guys, but I think it's better in the sense of like, hey, you have to be prepared to go up first or go up last

spk_0: for us, our lineups don't mean sh it we don't,

spk_3: it would be scored fairly because there's no lineup building, there's no score, top score building and I think it would be great.

spk_0: our lineup was based off of like, ok, we know that you have a hard time catching your breath, so we'll put you at the end of the bar line up, so you have the most time to catch up and we know that you to go first and get it over with, so we'll put you first. Like, that was literally, it was just based off of our, which is how it should

spk_2: be. You also just proved because it works in D three, it can happen in D1 that you don't have to do something. Like put everybody in a random generator to have it not to just be the order doesn't matter. Stop trying to build the scores sometimes, Grace Glenn is the best one,

spk_0: that's fine, that's what I was thinking of. It shouldn't be a big

spk_3: Deal to get a 10 in the leadoff spot because you should be able to get a 10 wherever you are in the lineup.

spk_2: So

spk_0: You're proving that she was never put in a position where she was going to have the chance to get a 10 because you put her in the first place. I'm telling you every time random lineup generator, it'll solve a lot only

spk_3: because people won't do it. Otherwise,

spk_2: I think that that actually probably is the answer to fixing NCAA they could just decide to stop being stupid about it, but I think you're right that realistically you would have to do something, you have to do something that because you would have a situation where Nia Dennis goes first or a Maggie, Nichols goes first or a Natalie logic goes first and you just have to judge what you just saw. That's the reason we're here. Yes,

spk_3: judge the Routine that's in front of you. You're not judging the color of the leo, you're not judging the name,

spk_2: we're solving all our problems today. We should, I think

spk_3: we should have an episode where it's literally let's solve NCAA gymnastics will bring back, kaya,

spk_0: people have actually start brainstorming.

spk_2: We will also be like, should just have you back in general because you're lovely, you are so lovely,

spk_0: thank you.

spk_2: Hey, we have had people to say more about that, we should talk more about day three, so that's always a conversation and I think to anything Interesting happens in day three, you can be our correspondent, first feel You're a person we talked to about D3 stuff, I don't even know any D3 coaches, even the coaches, I know we're all D1 so

spk_1: we

spk_3: have literally now interviewed for bisexual gymnasts and I'd just to say that when we started this podcast, we never thought that we would interview any bisexual gymnasts. So thank you for existing and being willing to talk to us.

spk_0: Of course I am very passionate about this stuff. I think it's amazing what you guys are doing. I jumped at the opportunity to talk to you guys because it's very important to me to have representation for every single person in every walk of life. So I'm very passionate about it and I love it. Ah

spk_2: that is wonderful. It's so wonderful.

spk_3: Yes, you're going to do such great things with that kind of thing and it is really important I think because eventually, you know, you have some tiny teen who is going to be like, you know, I'm in gymnastics and I'm queer and I don't know how to do that, but I think it's going to get better, you know, not to be it gets better, but I do think

spk_2: this by the time it's you, it'll be the trans kid and so it'll be like, it's just kind of perfect anyone who goes into public health who has any trans competencies is a complete angel in my eyes as secular early as possible that I'm just like, oh thank God somebody's doing, thank you for being here, you're wonderful, we'll talk to you again soon. I

spk_0: appreciate

spk_3: you stay safe and good luck in

spk_0: your season, We're excited to see it awesome. Well thank you guys

spk_2: Oh, you're great. Okay, thanks y'all for listening to this episode. If you want to connect with us, you can find us on twitter at HIHOPodcast instagram is the same. We're also on facebook, you go to any of our social media, you will find a link tree that will take you to our TeePublic store and our Patreon. Thank you so much to everyone who has supported us on patreon or through TeePublic it makes a huge difference. We're in the process right now of transitioning all of our podcast bills out of my bank account and into our podcast Paypal account because we're starting to get to where we have enough money to do that. So thank you so much. Thank you to kaya for joining us and for teaching us about division three gymnastics, Thank you to Megan. I know we said this last week, but thank you to Megan for your generosity in supporting the podcast recently. It's made a huge difference for us and I hope you all have a good week. Thank you. Thanks your valentine's day

spk_4: shouldn't start with a hail mary. Don't wait until everyone's rushing the field for those last minute gifts on february 14th B. D. M. V. P. This valentine's day and go to pro flowers dot com to say 15% until february 14th with code crush 15 at checkout. See website for more details. Cancer is the beginning and while it can be hard to see past the diagnosis. We're here to help you focus on the future beyond treatment, filled with new perspectives,

spk_0: unknown strength and possibilities that once

spk_4: seemed impossible. A wider world stands before you because cancer is the beginning. This is the belief we share to give you your best chance forward. Carmen is Cancer Institute your best chance.

